patient_filename: TCGA-IP-7968.a5a9d8f6-5e1d-4bf3-80a4-b5b740ab2333
text: Operative Procedure: Esophagectomy. Pre-Operative Diagnosis: As below. Post-Operative Diagnosis: As below. A: Subcarinal lymph node. B: 2R Lymph node. C: Esophageal margin (FS). D: High para- tracheal lymph node. E: Lower para-esophageal. F: Anterior cervical lymph node. G: Gallbladder. H: Esophagus- Gastrectomy. Final Pathologic Diagnosis: A. Lymph node, subcarinal, lymphadenectomy: Sixteen (16) lymph nodes with sinus histiocytosis and anthracosis. No evidence of malignancy. 
B. Lymph node, level 2R, lymphadenectomy: Two (2) lymph nodes with sinus histiocytosis and mild anthracosis. No evidence of malignancy. C. Esophagus, margin, biopsy [FSC]: Portion of esophageal wall, no evidence of malignancy. Frozen section diagnosis is confirmed. 
D. Lymph node, high paratracheal, lymphadenectomy: One (1) of eleven (11) lymph nodes positive for metastatic adenocarcinoma. 4.5 cm. Extranodal extension not demonstrated. 
E. Lymph node, lower paraesophageal, lymphadenectomy: Four (4) lymph nodes, one with hyalnized granulomas. No evidence of malignancy. 
F. Lymph node, anterior cervical, lymphadenectomy: One (1) lymph node, no evidence of malignancy. G. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy: Cholelithiasis. Chronic cholecystitis with calcification of the gallbladder wall. No evidence of malignancy. 
H. Esophagus and stomach, esophagogastrectomy: Specimen: Esophagus, proximal stomach. Procedure: Esophagogastrectomy. Tumor site: Esophagogastric junction. Relationship of tumor to esophagogastric junction: Tumor midpoint is. located at the esophagogastric junction. Tumor size: 8.2 cm (greatest dimension). Histologic type: Invasive adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade: Moderately to poorly differentiated. Microscopic tumor extension: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria. into the periesophageal soft tissue. Margins: Proximal margin: 2.5 cm, uninvolved by invasive carcinoma,. no evidence of specialized metaplasia. Distal margin: 4.2 cm, uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Radial margin: <0.1 cm. If all margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma: Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: <0.1 cm. Specify margin: Deep. Treatment effect: Unknown. Lymph-vascular invasion: Present. Perineural invasion: Present. Pathologic Staging (pTNM): TNM descriptors: None known. Primary tumor (pT): pT3. Regional lymph nodes (pN): pN2. Number examined: 49. Number involved: 4. Distant metastasis (pM): pMX. Additional pathologic findings: Specialized metaplasia, intestinal type. (Barrett esophagus). No evidence of dysplasia. Extensive tumor ulceration. The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were. Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis: FSC Esophageal margin: Atypical glands present. FS TAT: Gross Description: Received are eight containers labeled with the patient's name. Part A is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "left subcarinal.". The specimen consists of a portion of yellow-tan fatty tissue with dimensions of. 4 X 3.1 X 2.6 cm. Inspection of the fatty tissue reveals multiple pink-tan. rubbery lymph nodes up to 1.4 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is. submitted as follows: A1. One lymph node, bisected. A2-5. Multiple whole lymph nodes. Part B is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "2R." The specimen. consists of a portion of yellow-tan fatty tissue with dimensions of 2.1 X 1.3 X. 0.9 cm. A search of the fatty tissue reveals two pink-tan rubbery lymph nodes,. up to 1 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted as follows: B1. Multiple whole lymph nodes. Part C is received fresh for intraoperative consultation and is additionally. labeled "esophageal margin." The specimen consists of a circular portion of. soft tissue with dimensions of 2 X 1.5 x 0.6 cm. The specimen is submitted for. frozen section diagnosis and is completely resubmitted in cassette C1. Part D is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "high paratracheal. lymph node." The specimen consists of a portion of yellow-tan fatty tissue with. dimensions of 6.5 X 5.2 X 2.5 cm. A search of the fatty tissue reveals a large. lymph node with dimensions 4.5 X 3 X 2.5 cm. This node is grossly positive. Multiple additional lymph nodes are found up to 2 cm. The specimen is submitted. as follows: D1. Representative section grossly positive node. D2. One lymph node, bisected. D3-4. Multiple whole lymph nodes. Part E is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "lower. paraesophageal." The specimen consists of a portion of yellow-tan fatty tissue. with dimensions of 4 X 3.2 X 1.2 cm. A search of the fatty tissue reveals. multiple pink-tan rubbery lymph nodes up to 1.6 cm in greatest dimension. The. specimen is submitted as follows: E1. One lymph node, bisected. E2. Multiple whole lymph nodes. Part F is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "anterior cervical. lymph node." The specimen consists of a portion of yellow-tan fatty tissue with. dimensions of 1 X 1 X 1.2 cm. Sectioning through the tissue reveals a single. pink-tan rubbery lymph node, 1 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is. submitted as follows: F1. One lymph node, bisected. Part G is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "gallbladder." The. specimen consists of a previously opened gallbladder with dimensions of 12.2 X. 7.5 X 4 cm. The gallbladder has been previously opened and the contents are in. the bottom of the specimen container. These consist of multiple yellow to. red-tan choleliths, measuring in aggregate 7 X 5.2 X 2 cm. These choleliths are. polyhedral and range from 0.5 to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. The external. surface of the gallbladder is white-tan, and firm throughout. The wall thickness. ranges from 0.3 to 0.6 cm and the thickest portions appear to have many layers. and are possibly calcified. The luminal surface is white-tan and trabeculated. with orange-yellow to white-tan debris adherent to the wall. Representative. sections of the thickest portion of the gallbladder wall are taken. The specimen. is submitted as follows: G1-2. Cystic duct margin and gallbladder wall. G3. Gallbladder wall, submitted for decalcification prior to processing. Part H is received in formalin and is additionally labeled "esophagus. gastrectomy." The specimen consists of a portion of esophagus and proximal. stomach measuring 13.5 X 11.2 X 4.5 cm. There is a moderate amount of attached. fat. The specimen has been previously inked in the deep surface of the esophagus. and has been opened. A portion of the specimen has been banked with the. Tissue Bank. The distal gastric margin is stapled. Also received with the. specimen is a clear plastic tube which is within the lumen of the proximal. esophagus. This tube is stapled to the mucosal lining of the esophagus. Further. opening of the specimen reveals a large ulcerated, polypoid mass extending into. the lumen. This mass is red-brown, and focally hemorrhagic and necrotic, with. dimensions of 8.2 X 4.6 X 4.2 cm. This mass is located 2.5 cm from the closest. esophageal edge and 4.5 cm from the distal gastric margin. The mass involves the. GE junction. The mass appears to abut the inked deep margin. A search of the. attached fat reveals multiple pink-tan, rubbery lymph nodes, up to 1.8 cm in. greatest dimension. The specimen is submitted as follows: H1-3. Gastric margin. H4-5. Mass to closest deep margin. H6-9. Additional sections of mass. H10-11. One esophageal lymph node, trisected. H12. One esophageal lymph node, trisected. H13. One esophageal lymph node, bisected. H14-15. Multiple whole esophageal lymph nodes. H16-17. Multiple whole gastric lymph nodes. H18. One gastric lymph node, bisected. Microscopic Description: The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination. findings. Gender: M.
