patient_filename: TCGA-L5-A43C.86D3E142-C83D-47A7-A5C3-58F74CDCB7DE
text: OPER DATE: REQ DOC: PROCEDURE: SPHS. Source of Specimen: Esophagus. History of case: Recently diagnosed with. gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma. Operative Procedure/Tissue Submitted: THE. distal esophagus and proximal stomach. PROCEDURE: SPGD. 1. "Distal esophagus proximal stomach" Received in formalin in a large. container is a distal esophagus with attached proximal stomach. Esophagus is. 10.2 cm in length with the stomach being 8.5 x 4.2 x 2.5 cm. The adventitia is. red-tan and ragged with a scant amount of attached yellow adipose. The mucosa. of the esophagus is pink-gray and remarkable for fungating ulcerative,. tan-gray tumor located at the gastroesophageal junction, but the midpoint is. 1.5 cm above the gastroesophageal junction. Tumor is 6.2 cm away from the. proximal margin and 3.2 cm away from the distal margin. The tumor has a. maximum depth of 0.7 cm and extends to the attached adipose. Tumor is up to. 98% circumferential around the gastroesophageal junction. Multiple possible. lymph nodes are identified ranging up to 0.6 cm. The adventitia also has a. focal area of gray-white small nodules aggregating to 0.5 x 0.3 cm. 1A. Tumor to adjacent proximal. 1B. Tumor to adjacent distal. 1c. Tumor to deep. 10. Tumor to deep to nodules on adventitia. 1E&F. Tumor at gastroesophageal junction. 1G. Gastroesophageal junction. 1H&I. Multiple possible lymph nodes. 1J. One bisected lymph node. 2. "Cervical esophageal margin" Received in formalin in a small container is a. 1.7 cm long x 3.2 cm diameter segment of esophagus. Submucosal hemorrhage is. PREVIOUS DIAGNOSIS INQUIRY. 3. PATIENT NBR: BIRTHDATE: ADM DATE: OPER DATE: REQ DOC: identified. Shave of the opened end is submitted. 3. "Gestrohepatic Ligament LN" Received in formal in in a small container is a. 3.0 x 2.1 x 0.6 cm portion of yellow adipose. Two lymph nodes are identified,. 0.6 and 1.2 cm. 3A&B. One bisected lymph node each. PROCEDURE: SPMI. GASTROESOPHAGEAL JUNCTION CARCINOMAS. Gastroesophageal junction. Type of Carcinoma: Mucinous. Precursor Lesions: Unknown. Depth of Invasion: Subserosa and periesophageal soft tissue. Number of Positive Lymph Nodes/the Total Number Found: 12/21. Distant Metastases: Unknown. Resection Margins Involved: T2b N1 MX. PROCEDURE: SPDX. 1-2. Distal esophagus, proximal stomach and cervical esophageal margin,. transhiatal esophagectomy: Invasive mucinous carcinoma with prominent signet. ring features arising at the gastroesophageal junction and invading through. the muscularis propria into the periesophageal soft tissue and coming to. within 0.1 cm of the periesophageal soft tissue margin. Proximal and distal. margins free of tumor. Vascular invasion present. Metastatic carcinoma in. twelve of nineteen lymph nodes (12/19). Extranodal extension present. Please. see template. 3. Lymph nodes, gastrohepatic ligament, excision: Two lymph nodes negative for. neoplasm (0/2).
