patient_filename: TCGA-S8-A6BV.15E8D407-DE20-4D26-BB59-0F4823C8688D
text: Operative Procedure: Ivor Lewis esophagectomy/pancreatectomy. A: Stomach margin (-) (FS). B: left pancreas + spleen. C: body of pancreas margin (-) (FS). D: Esophageal margin (FS). E: Esophagus. Final Pathologic Diagnosis: A. Stomach, excision of margin: Negative for malignancy. Frozen section diagnosis confirmed. B. Pancreas, distal, pancreatectomy: Benign pancreatic cyst, 0.5 cm. Patchy low grade pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia. Twelve benign lymph nodes (0/12). Spleen, splenectomy: Negative for malignancy. C. Pancreas, excision of margin: Negative for malignancy. Frozen section diagnosis confirmed. D. Esophagus, excision of margin: Negative for malignancy. Frozen section diagnosis confirmed. E. Esophagus, esophagogastrectomy. Specimen: Esophagus, proximal stomach. Procedure: Esophagogastrectomy. Tumor site: Esophagogastric junction (EGJ). Relationship of tumor to esophagogastric junction: Tumor midpoint lies in the. distal esophagus. Tumor size: 4.5 cm. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Microscopic tumor extension: Tumor invades the muscularis propria into. the periesophageal soft tissue. Margins: Proximal margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distal margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Circumferential margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin is 0.1 cm. Specify margin: Circumferential margin. Treatment effect: None. Lymph-vascular invasion: Not seen. Perineural invasion: Not seen. Pathologic staging (pTNM): Primary tumor: T3. Regional lymph nodes: pN1. Number examined: 16. Number involved:2. Distant metastasis: None known. Additional pathologic findings:Intestina metaplasia (Barrett esophagus) with. high-grade dysplasia. The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were. Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis: FSA: Stomach margin: Negative. F/S TAT: 20 mins. FSC: Body of pancreas margin: Negative for tumor. F/S TAT: 15 mins. FSD: Esophageal margin: Negative. F/S TAT: 20 mins. Gross Description: A. Received without fixative labeled "stomach margin". are two irregular partial gastric wall excisions, 4.7 x 1.8 x 1.0 cm and 9.5 x. 3.0 x 2.5 cm. There is minimal adherent fat. Multiple staple lines are present. The mucosa is tan with the normal folds. A representative section is submitted. for frozen section microscopy, now in cassette A1. Additional representative. sections are submitted in cassette A2. B. Received in formalin, labeled "left pancreas and. spleen" is a 4.9 x 3.3 x 1.8 cm distal pancreas with attached 136 gram, 9.5 X. 8.0 x 4.3 cm spleen and a moderate amount of attached fat. Located 2.9 cm from. the resection margin is a 0.5 X 0.4 X 0.4 cm smooth walled, uniloculated. pancreatic cyst, which comes to within 0.2 cm from the inked external surface. This cyst appears to involve a side branch of the main pancreatic duct. The. remaining pancreas is tan and lobulated. No discrete solid lesions are. identified. The pancreatic duct appears probe patent, averaging less than 0.1. cm. The capsule of the spleen is purple-pink, smooth, glistening and intact. Sectioning reveals a red-pink, soft, homogeneous parenchyma with prominent white. pulp. No discrete lesions are present. Multiple tan-pink, rubbery lymph nodes. are identified in the attached fat, up to 0.5 cm. Representative sections are submitted as follows: B1. cyst in its entirety to include inked external surface;. B2-6. pancreas submitted sequentially from proximal to distal (not. entirely submitted);. B7 spleen;. B8-9. multiple whole possible lymph nodes. C. Received without fixative labeled "body of. pancreas margin" is a 2.3 x 1.8 X 0.2 cm tan, irregular soft tissue, submitted. in toto for frozen section microscopy, now in cassette C. D. Received without fixative labeled "esophageal. margin" is a 4.5 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm irregular soft tissue, partially surfaced by a. tan, wrinkled mucosa. A representative section is submitted for frozen section. microscopy, now in cassette D1. Representative sections of the remaining tissue are submitted in cassette D2. E. Received in formalin, labeled "esophagus" is a 5.5. cm segment of distal esophagus with attached up to 5 cm of proximal stomach with. a moderate amount of attached fat. Involving the proximal stomach, 0.6 cm from. the distal margin and 5 cm from the proximal margin is a 4.5 x 2.2 cm tan,. irregular well delineated, focally ulcerated raised mass. This mass on. sectioning is tan, firm, heterogeneous, focally cystic with a total thickness of. 2.0 cm, extending to the muscularis propria with possible involvement of the. subjacent fat, coming within less than 0.1 cm from the inked deep soft tissue. margin. The uninvolved esophageal mucosa is tan-pink and wrinkled. The. uninvolved gastric mucosa is tan with the normal folds. The gastroesophageal. junction is well delineated. Multiple tan-pink, rubbery to firm lymph nodes are. identified in the attached fat up to 2 cm. Representative sections are submitted as follows: E1-2 mass to inked deep soft tissue margin;. E3. mass with adjacent uninvolved esophageal mucosa;. E4. mass with adjacent uninvolved gastric mucosa;. E5. gastroesophageal junction, uninvolved;. E6-7. multiple whole lymph nodes;. E8. one whole lymph node trisected;. E9. one whole lymph node bisected;. E10. one whole lymph node bisected;. E11. one whole lymph node bisected;. E12. representative section from one lymph node;. E13. representative sections from one lymph node. Microscopic Description: The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination. findings. (Age: ) Gender: M.
