patient_filename: TCGA-G3-AAV6.AEA78B89-B8C2-457C-B524-87C19B685C03
text: CONFIDENTIAL. Demographics (for. verification purposes). Date of Birth: Sex: F. Surgical Pathology Re. Collected Date/Time. Received Date/Time. Specimen Description. A: Gallbladder at. B: Group 8 lymph noue at. C: Group 12 lymph node at. D: Left and right liver at. E: Re-excision posterior margin caudate lobe at. Clinical Information. Hepatocellular Ca. Diagnosis. A. Gallbladder, Resection: - Cholesterolosis. B. Lymph Node (Group 8), Resection: - One lymph node, negative for metastatic malignancy (0/1). c. Lymph node (Group 2), Resection: - One lymph node, negative for malignancy 0/1). D. Liver (left and right lobes). partial hepatectomy: - Hepatocellular carcinoma, grade 3/4 (size 15cm). - Multiple foci. Second focus 1.0 cm (D12). - Lymphovascular invasion present in small vessels near the portal. triads. No large vessel invasion identified. - Vascular margins negative for tumor. - Background liver with chronic nonspecific portal inflammation. - No evidence of cirrhosis. - Present at inked and cauterized hepatic edge. E. Caudate lobe, posterior margin, reexcision: - Hepatocellular carcinoma present at edge of specimen towards. previous excision. New cauterized margin free of tumor. Tumor also present in small lymphvascular spaces. No large vessel. involvement. Verified: Responsible Resident: Synoptic Report. Specimen: Liver. Gallbladder. PROCEDURE: Partial hepatectomy. TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 15. cm. TUMOR FOCALITY: Multiple (specify location) : Multiple present. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Minor component of clear cell and multinucleated cell growth patterns noted in the. hepatocellular caricnoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GIII: Poorly differentiated. TUMOR EXTENSION (select all that apply) : Tumor confined to liver. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) : pT3: Multiple tumors more than 5 cm or tumor involving a major branch of the portal or. hepatic vein(s). REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) : pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis. DISTANT METASTASIS (pM) : pMX: Cannot be assessed. VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V) : Absent. Gross Description. Received are specimen containers A tn R all remissions and specimen containers are. labelled with the patient's name,. The cassettes and identifiers are. labelled with the Surgical Number. A: Received an intact gallbladder 1.4 x 2 x 0.8 cm. The serosal surface is smooth. On. opening, it contains approximately 1 ml of thick green bile. No gallstones are. identified. The mucosal surface shows cholesterolosis. The average thickness of the wall. is 0.2 cm. Cystic duct lymph node is not identified. Representative sections are. submitted in one block. B: Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated group 8 lymph node. The. specimen consists of a portion of yellow grey soft tissue, possibly lymph node, 2.7 x 1.1. x 0.2 cm. It is trisected and submitted in toto in one cassette. C: Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated group 12 lymph node. The. specimen consists of one portion of yellow tan fibrofatty tissue, 3.4 x 1.2 x 0.3 cm. This fibrofatty tissue contains a single possible lymph node, 2.7 cm in maximum. dimension. The lymph node is bisected and submitted in toto in one cassette. D: Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated left and right liver. The. specimen consists of a portion of liver 721 g and 17.5 x 17.5 x 6.5 cm. The resection. margin (non peritonealized surface) is painted blue. A necrotic region is identified at. the hilum which is painted orange and a possible portal vein margin is painted yellow. On. sectioning, a tan irregular mass is identified, 11.3 cm from superior to inferior x 6 cm. from anterior to posterior and 15 cm from medial to lateral, almost replacing the liver. parenchyma. On sectioning, this mass has a variegated appearance with multiple areas of. hemorrhage, necrosis and bright yellow color areas. This mass closely apposes the. capsular surface of the liver and in some areas, seems to be grossly invading into the. capsule. A solid, tan nodule, 1 cm in maximum dimension is seen separately at a distance. of 1 cm from the primary tumor. The residual liver parenchyma appears normal without any. gross changes suggestive of cirrhosis. Sections are submitted as follows: D1. resection margin of the possible portal vein. D2/3. representative sections of the mass to show its closest relationship with. the liver capsule. D4. representative section of the tumor mass to show its relationship with the. closest. resection margin. D5-11. representative sections of the tumor mass. D12. representative section of the tan nodule away from the tumor mass. D13. section of the tumor mass to show its relationship with the normal liver. parenchyma. E: Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated re-excision posterior margin. caudate lobe. The specimen consists of one portion of red brown liver tissue, 6.5 x 5 x. 0.9 cm. A stapled resection margin is identified, 2 cm in maximum length. The surface is. painted blue. On sectioning, tumor masses are not identified grossly. Four representative. sections are submitted in E1-4. Microscopic Description. Minor clear cell and multinucleated cell growth patterns are noted in the hepatocellular. carcinoma. Pathologist Comment. Note in specimen E blue ink has run onto the surface towards the previous excision and. does not represent a true margin. Fibrin and clot is present on this surface and helps. separate it from the new true margin. Best tumor block = D2. Normal = E1. Encounter Number. Patient Location.
