patient_filename: TCGA-MR-A520.FA4ACC09-F22B-4253-8667-6C04369E5DCA
text: SPECIMEN(S): A: Gallbladder. B: Right lobe of liver. FINAL DIAGNOSIS: B. Liver, right lobe, partial hepatectomy: - Well-differentiated hepatocellular neoplasm; with features of. so-called adenoma like hepatocellular carcinoma (see microscopic). - Tumor measures 6.5 cm. - Resection margins free of tumor. - No lymphovascular invasion. - Peliosis and extramedullary hematopiesis present in tumor. - Hemorrhage suggestive of prior biopsy site. - Steatosis with inflammation in the non-tumor liver. - See microscopic for tumor checklist. A. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy: - Cholelithiasis. - No evidence of malignancy. I have personally reviewed all specimens and or slides, including the. listed special stains, and used them with my medical judgement to. determine the final diagnosis. CLINICAL HISTORY: The patient is a. .year-old man with history of liver cancer who. undergoes partial hepatectomy. GROSS: Two specimens are received, each labeled with the patient's name and. hospital number. A. Specimen A is designated "gallbladder." The specimen. consists of a blue-green gallbladder measuring 7.3 x 3.0 X 3.0 cm. The. specimen is opened revealing approximately 20 mL of light green viscous. bile intermixed with a single brown-black gallstone measuring 0.5 cm. The mucosal surface has a granular green appearance and a uniform wall. thickness of 0.1 cm. The bile duct is opened and is unremarkable. No. additional stones are identified. The specimen is sampled in cassette. A. B. Specimen B is designated "liver, right lobe. The specimen. consists of a 1160 gm right hemihepatectomy measuring 20.0 X 14.0 X 5.0. cm. The surgical cauterized margin is inked black. The specimen is. sectioned perpendicular to the margin revealing a 6.5 X 6.0 X 4.6 cm. tan-red lobulated and essentially solid appearing lesion located 0.2 cm. from the closest surgical. The surgeon is notified. The specimen is. photographed. The surrounding parenchyma has a tan-red, yellow soft. coloration and consistency. No additional lesions are grossly. identified. Representative tissue is secured for potential future. studies. MICROSCOPIC: Microscopic examination is performed. The sections show a well differentiated hepatocellular neoplasm that is. partially encapsulated and partially blending with the normal liver. There are pseudo-portal tracts within the mass, with vessels but no bile. ducts. There is minimal nuclear atypia but no glandular or. pseudoglandular formation. The tumor also shows areas of steatosis,. peliosis and extramedullary hematopoiesis. We do not see vascular. invasion. There is some hemorrhage and an infarct-like area, which we. suspect may represent the prior biopsy area. Based on these HITE features, we favored a hepatocellular adenoma. There was an outside biopsy called hepatocellular carcinoma, which we. have not reviewed. case was reviewed at the. called hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), in part based on. focal loss of reticulin meshwork and focal glypican staining. Given our. questions about the diagnosis of HCC, we elected to perform some. additional studies on this case. Immunostains show that the tumor has only membranous staining for. beta-catenin, without nuclear staining. This is a pattern that is. typical for adenoma, although it is reported that some. well-differentiated HCCs also lack nuclear beta-catenin. A CD34 stain. shows that most of the has a well-formed sinusoidal vascular pattern but. in scattered areas, this becomes difficult to define. I also performed. reticulin stains on all 6 blocks of the tumor, and again, in. much of the tumor, there is good plate formations which are one or two. cells thick; there are areas where the reticulin meshwork is poorly. defined, and some ball-like collections are present. A glypican. immunostain is still pending. Overall, the histologic and special stain features are equivocal for the. differential of adenoma versus well-differentiated HCC. What pushes me. over the line for a diagnosis of HCC is the age and sex of the patient. year old man), which is quite atypical for adenoma. Studies have. shown that even tumors with classic features of adenoma present in. patients 9particulalry men) older than have sometimes behaved like. well-differentiated HCC. Taking that information with the histology,. I. think it is best to classify this as a very well-differentiated. adenoma-like HCC. The native liver shows moderate macrovesicular steatosis (25 percent),. and some modest chronic inflammation, without the hepatocellular. ballooning of a true steatohepatitis. There is no evidence of. significant fibrosis or cirrhosis in the non-tumor liver. Liver tumor checklist: Procedure: partial hepatectomy (right lobe). Histologic type: hepatocellular carcinoma, adenoma-like (see above). Histologic grade: Well-differentiated. Tumor size: 6.5 cm. Number of tumor nodules and location: One nodule; right lobe. Angiolymphatic invasion: Absent. Invasion of major branch of portal or hepatic vein: Absent. Involvement of adjacent organ or perforation of visceral peritoneum: Absent. Resection margins: Negative; distance from nearest margin: 0.2 cm. Lymph nodes: None sampled. Tumor stage: pT1/NX (pT1: solitary tumor without vascular invasion). Uninvolved liver: Steatosis with inflammation.
