patient_filename: TCGA-G3-A7M8.77483096-0271-4EBD-BC39-2232A3DEFF69
text: CONFIDENTIAL. Demographics (for. verification purposes). Date of Birth: Collected Date/Time. Received Date/Time. Specimen Description. Left liver. Clinical Information. HCC segment 2. Two other lesions segment 3. Diagnosis. Liver, Partial Hepatectomy: Well-differentiated - hepatocellular carcinoma arising in a background. of cirrhosis and hemosiderosis. See synoptic report for details. Verified: Synoptic Report. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcincma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GI: Well differentiated. TUMOR EXTENSION (select all that apply) : Tumor confined to liver. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) : pT1: Solitary tumor with no vascular invasion. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) : pNX: Cannot be assessed. MARGINS: Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V) : Absent. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Cirrhosis/fibrosis. Iron overload. At least one hemangioma. Specimen: Liver. PROCEDURE. Partial hepatectomy. Minor hepatectomy (less than 3 segments). TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 2.1 cm. TUMOR FOCALITY: Solitary (specify location) : Segment 2. Gross Description. Received fresh is a single specimen. requisition and specimen container. are labelled with the patient's name,. The cassette and. are. labelled with the Surgical Number. The container is designated "left liver". The specimen consists of a partial hepatectomy. specimen weighing 666.1 g and measuring 23.0 x 12.0 x 6.0 cm. The resection margin is. painted blue. The outer surface has a vaguely nodular appearance. On sectioning, the. liver parenchyma has a micronodular, cirrhotic appearance with an orange/brown. discoloration. Three potential lesions are identified. The largest is a circumscribed. soft tan/yellow nodule approaching the painted resection margin and this measures 2.1 cm. in diameter. A second blood-filled cystic lesion is seen at the opposite end of the. resection specimen and it measures 0.9 cm in diameter. It approximates the capsule. Another small hemorrhagic area is seen near to this second lesion, but it is unclear. whether or not this represents a separate lesion. There is an apparent fullness to one of. the portal tract areas adjacent to the inked resection margin. Otherwise, no other mass. lesions are identified. A1-A3 largest nodule. A4-A5 cystic hemorrhagic lesions. A6 capsule. A7-A8 bile duct fullness. A9 non-neoplastic liver. Pathologist Comment. Encounter Number. Patient Location.
