patient_filename: TCGA-DD-A1EF.002B24F9-22DB-4504-A048-BF9790A4837E
text: TISSUE DESCRIPTION: A1 A. Right Lobe, Liver Routine Biopsy: : 2 pieces,. ranging from 2.0 cm in length x 0.1 cm in diameter to 2.2 cm in. length X 0.1 cm in diameter. DIAGNOSIS: Liver, right lobe, needle biopsy Mildly active (grade 1 of 3). steatohepatitis with mild portal and periportal fibrosis (stage. 1-2 of 4) (see comment). DIAGNOSIS COMMENT: The liver needle biopsy is adequate with more than 15 portal. tracts. Each portal tract contains intact hepatic artery, bile. duct, and portal vein branches. Mild focal lymphocytic. infiltrate is also present in some of the portal tracts. No. interface hepatitis is present. Mild portal and periportal. fibrosis is present on the trichrome and reticulin stains. Liver. parenchyma shows mild to moderate macrovesicular steatosis,. focal hepatocellular ballooning, and mild lymphocytic aggregate. No hemosiderosis is present on the iron stain. No cytoplasmic. globules are present on the PAS-d stain. REVISED REPORT (Addendum/Procedure included). TISSUE DESCRIPTION: Al A2 A3 A4 A5 A6 A7 A8 A9 A10 B1. Portion of left lateral liver (6.2 X 3.8 x 3.5 cm), tissue from. superior margin of liver (1.8 X 1.0 x 0.8 cm). DIAGNOSIS: Liver, left lateral, resection: Grade 3 (of 4) hepatocellular. carcinoma, forming a single 5.5 X 3.3 x 3.3 cm multinodular. mass. The hepatic capsule is free of tumor. The surgical. margins are free of tumor, the clearance being 0.3 cm. microscopically. Extramural vascular invasion is not. identified. The tumor is partially encapsulated, infiltration. of parenchyma being of the pushing type. The non-neoplastic. liver will be assessed on permanent sections and an addendum. will be issued. Liver, superior margin, re-excision: Negative. for tumor. ADDENDUM: Review of the permanent sections of adjacent nonneoplastic liver. demonstrates a mild simple steatosis as manifested by. macrovesicular steatosis present in the zone 3 region. Scattered clusters of neutrophils are identified and are. consistent with surgical hepatitis. The portal areas. demonstrate a mixed chronic inflammatory cell infiltration that. is relatively nonspecific. The interlobular bile ducts and. intact and show no significant cellular injury. A mild degree. of ductular proliferation is identified and is most likely due. to mass affect of the adjacent hepatocellular carcinoma. Significant fibrosis is not identified. Please refer to the. accompanying liver biopsy (medical liver biopsy,. for. specific morphologic findings. Review of the permanent sections of the tumor and adjacent. nonneoplastic liver demonstrate focal venous invasion by the. hepatocellular carcinoma. TISSUE DESCRIPTION: A1 A. Right Lobe, Liver Routine Biopsy : 2 pieces,. ranging from 2.0 cm in length X 0.1 cm in diameter to 2.2 cm in. length X 0.1 cm in diameter. DIAGNOSIS: Liver, right lobe, needle biopsy : Mildly active (grade 1 of 3). steatohepatitis with mild portal and periportal fibrosis (stage. 1-2 of 4) (see comment). DIAGNOSIS COMMENT: The liver needle biopsy is adequate with more than 15 portal. tracts. Each portal tract contains intact hepatic artery, bile. duct, and portal vein branches. Mild focal lymphocytic. infiltrate is also present in some of the portal tracts. No. interface hepatitis is present. Mild portal and periportal. fibrosis is present on the trichrome and reticulin stains. Liver. parenchyma shows mild to moderate macrovesicular steatosis,. focal hepatocellular ballooning, and mild lymphocytic aggregate. No hemosiderosis is present on the iron stain. No cytoplasmic. globules are present on the PAS-d stain. REVISED REPORT (Addendum/Procedure included). TISSUE DESCRIPTION: A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A6 A7 A8 A9 A10 B1. Portion of left lateral liver (6.2 x 3.8 x 3.5 cm), tissue from. superior margin of liver (1.8 x 1.0 x 0.8 cm). DIAGNOSIS: Liver, left lateral, resection: Grade 3 (of 4) hepatocellular. carcinoma, forming a single 5.5 X 3.3 x 3.3 cm multinodular. mass. The hepatic capsule is free of tumor. The surgical. margins are free of tumor, the clearance being 0.3 cm. microscopically. Extramural vascular invasion is not. identified. The tumor is partially encapsulated, infiltration. of parenchyma being of the pushing type. The non-neoplastic. liver will be assessed on permanent sections and an addendum. will be issued. Liver, superior margin, re-excision: Negative. for tumor. ADDENDUM: Review of the permanent sections of adjacent nonneoplastic liver. demonstrates a mild simple steatosis as manifested by. macrovesicular steatosis present in the zone 3 region. Scattered clusters of neutrophils are identified and are. consistent with surgical hepatitis. The portal areas. demonstrate a mixed chronic inflammatory cell infiltration that. is relatively nonspecific. The interlobular bile ducts and. intact and show no significant cellular injury. A mild degree. of ductular proliferation is identified and is most likely due. to mass affect of the adjacent hepatocellular carcinoma. Significant fibrosis is not identified. Please refer to the. accompanying liver biopsy (medical liver biopsy,. for. specific morphologic findings. Review of the permanent sections of the tumor and adjacent. nonneoplastic liver demonstrate focal venous invasion by the. hepatocellular carcinoma.
