patient_filename: TCGA-UB-AA0U.00C0CD33-615E-47A6-8CEF-EE3A67F277D3
text: (Age: Sex: Male. Soc. Sec. #: Service Date: Client: : Physician (s) : FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS. A. Liver, left lateral segment, core needle biopsy: Scant fragment of. atypical hepatic tissue; see comment. B. Liver, lett lateral segment, partial hepatectomy: 1. Hepatoceilular carcinoma, oderately-differentiated, multifocal,. largest lesion measuring 4.1 cm, with focal distuption of the capsule,. present at inked surgical margin; see comment. 2. Mild steatosis and mild siderosis. COMMENT: Sections show multifocal tumor composed of nests and widened trabecular. of hepatoid cells with focal pseudoacinar and small cell change. suggestive of hepatocellular carcinoma. No intratumoral bile is noted. Background liver shows mild steatosis and rare swollen cells, but no. definite ballooned hepatocytes or Mallory hyaline. For the complete evaluation of this case special stains for mucicarmine. and reticulin were performed on block B5; stains for iron and trichrome. were performed on block B7. Immunotistochemical stains for CK7,. synaptophysin, arginase-1, and CK19 were performed on block B5 and. evaluated at the. Arginase-l is positive in tumor cells, and reticulin staining highlights. thickened hepatocyte plates within the tumor, consistent with a. moderately differentiated hepatocellul獺r carcinoma (HCC) - The tumor. cells are negative for mucicarmine and CK19, arguing against mixed. ICC/cholangiocarginoma, but there is focal CK7 labeling, a non-specific. finding. Synaptophysin is negative, excluding a neuroendocrine tumor. Trichrome staining of a subcapsular area of uninvolved liver (block B7). showed no significant fibrosis that could not be explained by. peritumoral effect or subcapsular location. Iron staining of the same. area demonstrated mild siderosis (1+, scale 0-4+) in hepatocytes, which. does not suggest untreated hereditary hemochromatosis. Liver Tumor, Including Intrahepatic Bile Duct, Synoptic Comment. - Tumor type: Hepatocellular carcinoma. - Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. - Tumor size (maximum diameter of largest lesion) : 4.1 cm. - Tumor necrosis: <30s. - Multifocality (more than one tumor separated by nontumorous liver. parenchyma) : Present. - Estimated total tumor diameter of all HCC foci: total diameter 6.0. cm. - Vascular invasion: None. - Hepatic capsule: Tumor abuts the capsule at multiple locations. Focally, the capsule is disrupted over tumor, with ink on tumor. The. finding is concerning for tumor extension through the capsule, although. not definitive. Per the operative note, a biopsy of the tumor was taken. intraoperatively, thus is it possible that this area of capsular. disruption represents the biopsy site. Correlation with the operative. findings is required. - Local extension of tumor: Confined to liver, but there is capsule. disruption and clinical correlation is suggested. - Hepatic surgical margins: Positive; tumor is at the inked surgical. parenchymal margin (best appreciated on FS2B). - Non-neoplastic liver: Mild steatosis (grade 1, scale 6-3), mild. siderosis (grade 1, scale 0-4). - Lymph node status: None submitted. - AJCC Stage: At least pT2NX; pT4NX if the capsular disruption. represents extension beyond the visceral epithelium. Correlation with. operative findings is required. Specimen (s) Received. A:Left lateral segment Liver lesion (fs1). B:Left lateral segment Liver (fs2). Intraoperative Diagnosis. FS1 (A) Liver, left lateral, biopsy: Hepatic tissue with cytologic and. architectural atypia on a limited biopsy. Definitive diagnosis requires. immunohistochemical staining Dr. agrees. (Dr. FS2 (B) Liver, left lateral, removal of segment: : Hepatocellular. carcinoma, low grade on representative section, present at inked margin. Dr. Clinical History. The patient is a. year-old male who presented with a neck mass, which. was found to be desmoid fibromatosis, for which he underwent partial. debulking. As part of the workup, abdominal imaging was performed which. demonstrated a liver mass. He has no known history of liver disease,. HBV, HCV, or fatty liver disease. He does not drink heavily. He is. moderately overweight, but has no history of diabetes mellitus. The. patient now undergoes left lateral segmental hepatic resection. Gross Description. The case is received in two parts, each labeled with the patient's name. and medical record number. Part A is received fresh and additionally labeled "L lat segment. lesion, and consists of three 0.1-cm-thick cores of pale-tan to brown. tissue. The cores each have a length of 0.3 CIV, 0.5 cm and 0.5 cm. The. specimen is entirely frozen for frozen section diagnosis 1 and submitted. for permanent section in cassette A1. Part B is received fresh and additionally labeled "left lateral. segmental liver.'. SPECIMEN TYPE: Portion of liver. WEIGHT: 241 gm. SIZE OF SPECIMEN: 16 x 7 x 5 cm. GROSS ABNORMALITIES: There is a multilobulated, tan-brown mass. measuring 4.1 x 3.6 x 3.4 cm, grossly abutting the capsular surface. (inked blue) and located 0. 6 cm from the inked cauterized margin (inked. black). There are several additional satellite nodules which are. grossly not connected to the primary mass. There is a 1.0 cm nodule. which abuts the black ink, and a portion of this nodule is used for. frozen section diagnosis FS2B. There are additional satellite nodules. measuring 0.6 cm at 1.9 cm from the inked cauterized margin, and 0.3 cm. at 1.8 cm from the inked cauterized margin and girossly confluent with. the serosal surface. The remaining liver parenchyma is red-brown, firm. and unremarkable. ORIENTED BY: None. INKING: - Serosal surface: Blue. - Cauterized margin: Black. CASSETTES: Representative sections are submitted as follows: B1: Frozen section remnant, FS2B. B2: Additional cross-section of nodule at inked cauterized. margin (unfrozen portion) and more distal unconnected multilobulated. mass. B3: Cross-sections of additional unconnected nodules. 84: Cross-section of primary tumor with lobules adjacent to. inked serosa. B5: Lobules of tumor at inked serosa. B6: Additional cross-section of tumor with inked cauterized. margin. B7: Adjacent uninvolved liver. The immunohistochemical stains reported above were developed and their. performance characteristics determined by the. Department of Pathology. They have not been cleared or approved by the. U. S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such. clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for. clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or. for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical. Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 ("CLIA") as qualified to. perform high-complexity clinical testing. Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis. made by attending pathologist following review of all pathology slides. The attending pathologist has reviewed all dictations, including. prosector work, and preliminary interpretations performed by any. resident involved in the case and performed all necessary edits before. signing the final report,. Pathology PDF Report. Show images for Surgical Pathology. Authorizing Provider Information. Date/Time. Result History. and. Items. Surgical Pathology (Order #. This is NOT a Requisition. Requisition hyperlink below. Surgical Pathology (Order. Authorizing: Pathology and Cytology. MD. Raleas. Department: nages. Show images for Surgical Pathology. Release Date/Time. Start Date/Time. End Date/Time. Release Information. Released On. Released By. Frequency. Duration. Priority. Once. 1 occurence. Routine. Normal. Lab Collection and Receipt Information. Collect Time. Collected By. Lab Receipt Date. Lab Receipt Time. Office. Pager/beeper E-mail. Authorizing Provider. Parent Status: Completed. (This order does not yet have any children). Surgical Pathology (Order.
