patient_filename: TCGA-UB-A7ME.AAC76123-7B45-4C65-A90D-EEE823A0F84B
text: (enter 1 per line): liver segment 7 tumor (Order. Sex: Male. Soc. Sec. #: Locatio. Client: Physici. FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS. Liver, segment 7, partial hepatectomy: 1. Moderately differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma; see comment. 2. Cavernous hemangioma. 3. Chronic hep瓣titis B; see comment. 4. Mild steatosis. COMMENT: Liver Tumor Synoptic Comment. - Tumor type: Hepatocellular carcinoma, macrotrabecular and. pseudoglandular patterns. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. - Tumor size (maximum diameter of largest lesion) : 3.5 cm. - Tumor necrosis: <30%. - Multifocality: Absent. - Estimated total tumor diameter of all HCC foci : 3.5 cm. - Vascular invasion: None. - Hepatic capsule: No tumor in capsule. - Local extension of tumor: Confined to liver. - Hepatic surgical margins: Negative; tumor is 1.2 cm from resection. margin (slide A2) -. Non-neoplastic liver: Hepatitis B (see below) ; mild steatosis. - Lymph node status: None present. - AJCC Stage: pT1NX. In addition to the hepatocellular carcinoma, there is also a 2 cm. cavernous hemangioma. Sections of the hepatic parenchyma away from the. tumor show intact portal tracts with minimal to mild, predominately. lymphocytic portal inflammation. Scattered ground-glass hepatocytes are. identified (highlighted on a trichrome stain) as well as lobular. inflammation with a few necrotic cells. Mild steatosis is also present. A trichrome stain shows periportal fibrosis with focally thin septa. Overall, since these changes are adjacent to a mass lesion the chronic. hepatitis B is scored as grade 1 activity and stage 1 fibrosis. Chronic Hepatitis Synoptic Comment: - Type of hepatitis: Hepatitis B virus. - Necroinflammatory activity (grade 0-4) : 1 (see above). - Fibrosis (stage 0-4) : 1 (see above) . - Number of portal zones, >45. - Steatosis, scale 0-3 with 0 <5%: 1. Specimen (s) Received. A:Liver segment 7 tumor. Clinical History. Relevant History:hep B, hec. The patient is a. -year-old man with a history of hepatitis B and HCC . According to. an MRI performed on. showed three hemangiomas. and a solitary segment 7 lesion (2.6 cm), compatible with hepatocellular. carinoma; there was no evidence of cirrhosis. The serum AFP was 1388.8. on. Additional history includes cholecystecomy The patient now. undergoes resection of hepatic segment 7 and a portion of segment 8. Gross Description. The case is received fresh in one part, labeled with the patient's name,. medical record number and "liver segment 7 tumor, and consists of an. unoriented wedge of liver parenchyma (122 g; 10 x 7.5 x 3.6 cm). Two well-circumscribed, - non-encapsulated masses are identified. Mass. #1. (3.5 x 2.3 x 2.1 cm) is firm, multinodular, homogenous and white-tan,. and abuts the hepatic capsule. Mass #1 is located within 1.1 cm of the. resection margin (inked blue) Mass #2 (2 x 2 by 2 cm) is spongy, soft,. dark red-purple, and abuts the hepatic capsule. Mass #2 approaches the. resection margin to within 0.2 cm. Mass #2 is located 1.5 cm from mass. #1. The surrounding uninvolved liver parenchyma is soft, dark rust-tar. and homogenous. The capsule is predominately smooth, dark red-purple and. glistening, with an irregular, rough area (less than 408) at one end. The specimen was previously partially sectioned prior to receipt in. Pathology, as there are multiple linear slices into the specimen and. into mass #1. A portion of the liver parenchyma including part of Mass. #1 and part of the nearest resection margins is absent. Representative. sections are submitted in the following cassettes: A1, A2: Mass #1 with closest approach to resection margin. A3: Mass #1 with overlying capsule. A4: Mass #2 with overlying capsule and closest approach to. resection margin. A5: Liver parenchyma. Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis. made by attending pathologist following review of all pathology slides. The attending pathologis has reviewed all dictations and preliminary. interpretations performed by any resident involved in the case and. performed all necessary edits before signing the final report. Authorizing. Result History. (enter 1 per line): liver segment 7 tumor S. This is NOT a Requisition. Requisition hyperlink below. (enter 1 per line): liver segment 7 tumor. Authorizi. Pathology and Cytology. Departme. Release Date/Time. Start Date/Time. End Date/Time. Release Information. Released On. Released By. Frequency. Duration. Priority. Once. 1 occurrence. Routine. Unit Collect. Question. Answer. Comment. Specimen. (enter 1 per line). liver segment 7. tumor. hep B, hcc. Lab Collection and Receipt Information. Collect Time. Collected By. Lab Receipt Date. Lab Receipt Time. Office. Pager/beeper E-mail. Authorizing Provider. Acknowledgement Info. For. At. Acknowledged By. Acknowledged On. Parent Status: Completed. (This order does not yet have any children). (enter 1 per line): liver segment 7 tumor 1.
