patient_filename: TCGA-BC-A10Y.20CD1D6D-C4ED-43AD-9FCD-0A683FD96C6E
text: Diagnosis: A: Gallbladder, cholecystectomy. - No significant pathologic abnormality. B: Liver, left lobe, segmental hepatectomy. - Moderate to poorly differentiated hepatocellular carcinomia with extension into large caliber portal vein. and multiple foci of probable lymphovascular space invasion, surgical margins free. - Portal vein contains Congo red-positive material consistent with amyloid deposition (see comment). - Adjacent liver shows mild steatosis with reactive hepatopathy pattern but cirrhosis is not identified. C: Liver, true cut and wedge biopsy. - Hepatocellular carcinoma. Comment: There is no amyloid deposition noted within liver parenchyma. Intraoperative Consultation: A frozen section evaluation is requested by Dr. FSC1: Liver, tru cut and wedge biopsy. - Morphology consistent with hepatocellular carcinoma; no cirrhosis seen in adjacent uninvolved liver. Clinical History: The patient is a male with hepatocellular carcinonia who undergoes resection of the lobe of the liver and. cholecystectomy. Gross Description: Received are two appropriately labeled containers. Container A is additionally labeled "gallbladder.". Previously opened: no. Measurements: 7.6 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm. External surface: green and glistening with area of cauterization. Wall thickness: 0.2 cm. Mucosa: velvety, brown and unremarkable. Stones present: no. Other comments: none. Block #: A1. Container B is additionally labeled "left liver lobe." It holds a 740 gram segment of liver measuring 15 x 11. x 9 cm. The surgical margin has been inked in blue. There is a well defined mass which occupies nearly the. entire section of liver. It measures 13.5 x 9.0 x 7.5 cm. The cut surface is yellow and lobulated with areas. of necrosis. A section measuring 4.5 x 2.5 x 0.5 cm has been removed although no mention is made of. Tissue Procurement. Tumor extends to the capsule but does not appear to invade through the capsule. It. comes to within 0.3 cm of the inked surgical margin grossly. B1 - closest surgical margin. B2 - additional closest surgical margin. B3 - tumor, anterior/inferior. B4 - tumor, mid inferior. B5 - tumor, posterior inferior. B6 - normal and tumor, superior lateral. B7 - tumor with hemorrhage, posterolateral. B8-B12 - additional sections of surgical margin from anterior to posterior. Container C holds a 0.8 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm red/brown soft tissue fragment which is submitted totally for frozen. section; block FSC1, and a 1.2 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm triangular red/brown soft tissue fragment which is bisected. and half submitted as FSC1 and the remainder as C1. Light Microscopy: Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr. The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed. I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have rendered the above. diagnosis(es).
