patient_filename: TCGA-ES-A2HT.FF97C711-0686-480B-BC53-3CADCAA4C4C1
text: Patier. Medic. N. Sex: M. Service Date: Patient's location: Report type: Surgical. Date Obtained: Date Received: Referring Physician/Surgeon(s): Service: Transplant Surgery. SPECIMEN(S) SUBMITTED/ PROCEDURES ORDERED: A. Segment IVB and V of liver. A. Trichrome-Masson-Blue. CLINICAL HISTORY. year old male with history of hepatitis C and hepatocellular carcinoma. GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received the following specimen(s) in the Department of Pathology, labeled with the. patient's name and hospital #: A. Segment IVB and V of liver. A. The specimen is received fresh and consists of a 285 gm wedge shaped portion of liver that measures 15.0 x 10.0. x 5.5 cm. The gallbladder is attached to the posterior aspect. Two sides of the specimen are cauterized and. irregular and the other side is covered by glistening smooth capsule. A 2.2 cm diameter subcapsular nodule. partially distorts the anterior surface of segment IVB. The nodule is yellow-green and well-circumscribed. It. distends the capsule 0.4 cm. The nodule is 1.9 cm from the nearest cauterized margin. The tumor does not. invade the vessel adjacent to the mass. The gallbladder is 11.0 x 5.0 x 4.0 cm and is filled with tenacious thick. green bile and multiple gray-black calculi. The calculi are 0.4 cm in maximum diameter. A small amount of black. sludge is also included. The gallbladder mucosa is granular and gray-tan. The surrounding liver is tan to red-. brown and not cirrhotic. Representative sections are submitted as follows: A1. Vein at IVB margin. A2. Nearest cauterized margin and tumor. A3-A6. Tumor in adjacent liver. A7. Normal liver. A8. Gallbladder. DIAGNOSIS: A. Segment IVB and V of liver, partial hepatectomy: Moderately-differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma with the following features: - Solitary nodule measuring 2.2 cm in greatest dimension. - No vascular invasion identified. - Resection margin is widely negative. - AJCC pathologic staging pT1NXMX; TNM staging required by managing physician. Ancillary diagnoses: - Background liver with moderate chronic active hepatitis, HAI grade 5 (2 + 0 + 1 + 2) and. bridging fibrosis (fibrosis stage 4 out of 6), consistent with hepatitis C infection. - Gallbladder with chronic cholecystitis and cholelithiasis. - Masson trichrome stain supports the diagnosis. Medical Recoru to. "I, or my qualified designee, have performed the gross examination and description and I have personally reviewed the gross description and. specimen preparations referenced herein, and have personally issued this report.". Resident/Prosector/Pathologist. ICD9 Codes: 155.0070.9 575.11 574.20. Diagnostic/Retrieval Codes: Note: Test systems have been developed and their performance characteristics determined by : Some tests have not been cleared or. approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration The FDA has determined that such clearance is not necessary. I nese tests are used for clinical purposes and. should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA-88) as. qualified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing. Pauriologist. 2 of 2.
