patient_filename: TCGA-G3-A3CI.42613B77-F014-4AE9-AEF8-C5E632125EFA
text: PHN: ACB: Telephone: Encounter: Collected Date: Specimen Description. A. Gallbladder. B. Segment 5 and 6 of liver. Clinical Information. Hepatocellular carcinoma. Diagnosis. A. Gallbladder: - Mild chronic cholecystitis, negative for atypia. B. Liver, Segments 5 and 6, Resection: - Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated (Gr II). - Subcapsular location, 6.5 cm greatest diameter. - Completely excised, with nearest margin of 0.5 cm. Pathology: Provider - Permanent. Collected Date: Gross Description. Received are specimens A to B. All requisitions and specimen containers are labelled with the patient's name. The cassettes and AP identifiers are labelled with the Surgical Numbe. A. The specimen is received fresh, subsequently placed into formalin and consists of a slightly congested, non intact. gallbladder, measuring 7.0 X 3.0 X 1.5 cm. The serosal surface is smooth and glistening. Opening the gallbladder reveals. green bile and green, velvety mucosa. The gallbladder wall averages 0.2 cm in thickness. The cystic duct is patent. The. cystic duct lymph node is not identified. Three representative sections are submitted in one cassette. B. The specimen is received fresh, subsequently placed into formalin and consists of a portion of liver weighing 245. grams and measuring 15.0 x 5.5 x 7.5 cm. The surgical margin is inked blue. Sectioning of the liver reveals a tan,. lobulated, circumscribed mass measuring 5.5 X 4.5 X 6.5 cm. Grossly, this mass extends to the liver capsule giving the. capsule a lobulated appearance in one area. The mass comes to within 0.5 cm of the blue-painted resection margin. There is a vague nutmeg appearance to the liver parenchyma, otherwise it is unremarkable. Sections of the specimen are as follows: B1,B3. three sections through the lobulated surface on the liver capsule. B4,B5. two sections of the mass in relation to the blue-painted margin. B6,B7. two sections of the mass with adjacent unremarkable liver parenchyma. B8. a section of unremarkable liver parenchyma. Microscopic Description. A. Sections show largely unremarkable gallbladder tissue with only minor patchy chronic inflammation in the mucosa and. focal mild subserosal fibrosis. No atypia is present. B. Sections show a relatively circumscribed but invasive hepatocellular carcinoma that extends to the liver capsule, but. does not show any sign of disruption or breaching of the capsule. The carcinoma grows in sheets with cells showing. relatively abundant cytoplasm but showing variable nuclei with mild to moderate atypia, nucleoli, and patchy. hyperchromasia. Cytoplasmic intranuclear inclusions are also prominent. The tumor cell cytoplasm shows a range of. appearances, from granular eosinophilic to through to areas of clear cell change as well as areas with well developed fatty. change. In places a vague sinusoidal architecture can be seen and intra sinusoidal collections of extramedullary. hemopoiesis are present. Focal areas of hemorrhage, edematous degeneration and focal frank necrosis are present. The interface between the carcinoma and adjacent liver tissue varies, in areas having a circumscribed and almost. encapsulated margin but elsewhere having a vague merging of cancer cells with adjacent parenchyma. No evidence of. vascular invasion can be identified. Pathology: Provider - Permanent. Cunninal Anthalance Report. ?? Collected Date: The adjacent liver parenchyma shows mild patchy chronic inflammation in portal tracts (nonspecific portal triaditis) as well. as focal mineral oil lipogranulomas in portal areas. There is no hemosiderin accumulation or other abnormal. intracytoplasmic inclusions. No evidence of significant fibrosis or background cirrhosis is present. Histologic evaluation of. the margin confirms the gross appearance of a clear margin of approximately 0.5 cm. Pathology: Provider - Permanent.
