patient_filename: TCGA-UB-A7MF.7A3E5345-5272-4D82-8E97-40CCE9BAF330
text: (enter 1 per line): #1. Left lateral segment - for gross,. Accession. #. Sex: Male. Soc. Sec. #: Accession # : Visit # 簞. Locatic. Client: Physici. FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS. A. Liver, left lateral segment, partial hepatectomy: 1. Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated, multifocal,. margins negative; see comment. 2. Cirrhosis; see comment. B. Colon, ileum, and appendix, right hemicolectomy: - Colon: Adenocarcinoma, invasive into submucosa, arising in a tubular. adenoma, margins negative; see comment. - Ileum: No significant pathologic abnormality. Appendix: No significant pathologic abnormality. COMMENT: Part A Liver Tumor, Including Intrahepatic Bile Duct, Synoptic Comment. - Tumor type: Hepatocellular carcinoma, trabecular. - Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. - Tumor size (maximum diameter of largest lesion) : 7 cm. - Tumor necrosis: < 30%. - Multifocality (more than one tumor separated by nontumorous liver. parenchyma) : Present. - Estimated total tumor diameter of all HCC foci: 9.7 cm. - Vascular invasion: Present (slide A2), confirmed on. immunohistochemical staining for CD34 performed on block A2. Hepatic capsule: Tumor focally invades through capsule into. surrounding fat, but does not penetrate the visceral peritoneum (slide. A2) . - Local extension of tumor: Tumor focally invades through capsule into. surrounding fat, but does not penetrate the visceral peritoneum (slide. A2). - Hepatic surgical margins: Negative; tumor is 0.2 cm from margin. (slide A3). - Non-neoplastic liver: Cirrhosis; consistent with history of hepatitis. C. - Iron stain (in cirrhotic liver), scale 0-4+: 1-2+ in Kupffer. cells and hepatocytes. - Hepatocellular nodules (in cirrhotic liver) : None. - Lymph node status: None present (lymph nodes from Part B are. non-regional nodes; see below). - AJCC Stage: pT3aNO. Part B Colon and Rectum Tumor Synoptic Comments. - Location of tumor: Right colon. - Type of tumor: Adenocarcinoma, NOS. - Tumor size: 1.2 x 1 x 0.5 cm. - Are there clinical or pathological criteria present to do. microsatellite instability PCR in addition to MMR immunohistochemistry: No clinical or pathologic criteria to do both MMR immunohistochemistry. and MSI PCR. Only MMR immunohistochemistry was performed to evaluate. whether the tumor shows loss of mismatch repair protein expression on. block B7. The following immunohistochemical stains were performed and. evaluated. Results in the tumor cell nuclei are: MLH1 expression: Present. MSH2 expression: Present. MSH6 expression: Absent. PMS2 expression: Present. Absence of staining indicates that the tumor shows loss of one. of the mismatch repair proteins. However, the immunohistochemical stain. does not distinguish between loss due to promoter hypermethylation and. loss because the patient is a carrier of a mismatch repair gene mutation. associated with Lynch syndrome. This result should be correlated with. the patient's clinical presentation, family history, and findings from. the microsatellite instability (MSI) test. Referral for clinical. genetics evaluation and counseling should be considered to help. distinguish between these possibilities for the patients and their. family members. - Macroscopic tumor perforation: Not identified. - Grade of tumor: Low grade. - Treatment effect: Not applicable. - Microscopic depth of invasion: Tumor invades submucosa (pT1). - Blood/lymphatic vessel invasion: None. - Perineural invasion: None. - Margins: Negative. - Proximal margin: Negative; tumor is 17 cm from margin. - Distal margin: Negative; tumor is 14.3 cm from margin. - Serosa: Negative; tumor is 0.4 cm from serosa (slide B7). - Lymph node- status: - Negative; total number of nodes examined: 14. - Satellite tumor deposits (TD) : None present. - Other pathologic findings in bowel: None. - Polyps with invasive carcinoma Tubular adenoma. - AJCC/UICC stage: pT1NO. Dr. has reviewed slide A2 (including CD34 immunostain) and. concurs with the interpretation of tumor invasion through capsule into. fat, but not through the visceral peritoneum, and with focal vascular. invasion. Specimen (s) Received. A:Left lateral segment - for gross, then perm. B:Right colon and colon anastomosis. Clinical History. Per review of , the patient is a year-old male with a reported. history of colon cancer in and cirrhosis with multifocal. hepatocellular carcinoma (prior pathology not reviewed at. The. patient now has an endoscopically unresectable sessile polyp in the. ascending colon as well as hepatic left lobe multifocal hepatocellular. carcinoma and undergoes left lobe partial hepatectomy and right. hemicolectomy. Gross Description. The case is received in two parts, each labeled with the patient's name. and medical record number. Part A is received fresh, labeled "left lateral segment for gross, then. permanent, " and consists of a partial hepatectomy (487.5 gm; 10.5 cm. right to left x 16.5 cm anterior to posterior x 5.1 cm superior to. inferior). GROSS ABNORMALITIES: There is a yellow-red, vell-circumscribed, solid. dominant mass (7 x 4.5 x 4 cm), 0.1 cm from the surgical resection. margin. Multiple small vessels with surgical clips are present adjacent. to the mass and surgical resection margin, but do not appear to be. involved by the mass. There are multiple other nodules which are all. white-tan and lobulated: - Nodule #1: 1.4 x 1.3 x 0.5 cm nodule which is present 3 cm from the. resection margin. - Nodule #2: 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm nodule which is 4.2 cm from the. resection margin. - Nodule #3: 0.8 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm nodule at the hepatic capsule and 3 cm. from the resection margin. The remainder of the hepatic parenchyma is diffusely nodular, tan-brown. and firm. ORIENTED BY: Description as left lateral segment and anatomic landmarks. (liver edge) . INTRAOPERATIVE EVALUATION: Gross only -. INKING: - Resection margin: Black. POTENTIAL STUDIES: Snap frozen tumor and normal tissue to research. CASSETTES: Representative sections of tumor are submitted as follows: A1: Dominant mass and vessel margin. A2: Dominant mass and capsule. A3-A4: Dominant mass and surgical margin. A5: Dominant mass, surgical margin, and nodule #3. A6: Capsule and nodule #1. A7: Nodule #2. A8: Representative section of peripheral hepatic parenchyma. A9: Representative section of central hepatic parenchyma. A10: Small vessel margin and irregular area of surgical margin. Part B is received fresh, additionally labeled "right colon and colon. anastomosis,' and consists of a right hemicolectomy (29 cm in length x. 8. cm in diameter x 0.5 cm in average wall thickness) with attached ileum. (5 cm in length x 3 cm in diameter x 0.5 cm in average wall thickness),. appendix (6 cm in length x 0.5 cm in diameter), and pericolonic adipose. tissue. GROSS ABNORMALITIES: The mucosa is remarkable for three sessile polyps. The first polyp (1.2 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm) is 14.3 cm from the distal margin. and 17 cm from the proximal margin. The second 0.4 cm polyp is 9.2 cm. from the distal margin and 20 cm from the proximal margin. The third. small, 0.3 cm polyp is 5 cm from the proximal margin and 28 cm from the. distal margin on the ileocecal valve. There is a 4.5 cm mucosal ridge. 2.5 cm from the distal margin consistent with possible previous surgical. anastomotic line. All of the sessile polyps are superficial without. gross evidence for muscular wall involvement. No other mucosal lesions. are identified. The serosal surface is smooth and unremarkable. The lumen of the appendix is grossly unremarkable. The attached ileum. has a tan, unremarkable mucosa. Multiple candidate lymph nodes are. identified in the lobulated, yellow pericolonic adipose tissue. ORIENTED BY: Anatomic landmarks - ileum and appendix. INKING: - Blue: Serosal surface underlying largest polyp. CASSETTES: Representative sections are submitted as follows: B1: Proximal margin, en face. B2-B3: Distal margin, en face. B4: Representative en face section of radial (mesenteric). resection margin. B5: Anastomotic line, representative section. B6-B8: Lesion 1, submitted entirely, with blue ink on. pericolonic adipose surface. B9: Lesion 2. B10: Lesion 3. B11: Representative section of appendix. B12: Five candidate lymph nodes. B13: Five candidate lymph nodes. B14: Four candidate lymph nodes. B15: Three candidate lymph nodes. The immunoperoxidase stain (s) reported above were developed and their. performance characteristics determined by the. They have not been cleared or approved by the. U. S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such. clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for. clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or. for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical. Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 ("CLIA") as qualified to. perform high-complexity clinical testing. Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis. made by attending pathologist following review of all pathology slides. The attending pathologist has reviewed all dictations and preliminary. interpretations performed by any resident involved in the case and. performed all necessary edits before signing the final report. Pathology PDF Report. Show images for Surgical Pathology. (enter 1 per line): #1. Left lateral segment - for gross,. then perm. Authorizing Provider Information. Date/Time. Result History. LRR and EAP Items. (enter 1 per line): #1. Left lateral segment - for gross, then perm. This is NOT a Requisition. Requisition hyperlink below. (enter 1 per line): #1. Left lateral segment. Authorizir. - for gross, then perm. Pathology and Cytology. Departme. Show images for Surgical Pathology. (enter 1 per line): #1. Left lateral segment - for gross,. then perm. Release Date/Time. Start Date/Time. End Date/Time. Release Information. Released On. Released By. Frequency. Duration. Priority. Once. 1 occurrence. Routine. Unit Collect. Question. Answer. Comment. Specimen. (enter 1 per line). #1. Left lateral. segment - for. gross, then perm. Cirrhosis, Hep C,. Colon Ca. Lab Collection and Receipt Information. Collect Time. Collected By. Lab Receipt Date. Lab Receipt Time. Office. Pager/beeper E-mail. Authorizing Provider. Acknowledgement Info. For. At. Acknowledged By. Acknowledged On. Parent Status: Completed. (This order does not yet have any children). (enter 1 per line): #1. Left lateral segment - for'gross, then perm. criteria. riperse Discrepancy. Primar Tumor Site Carreparicy. rivit annus P , ary Noted celen /.
