patient_filename: TCGA-EP-A26S.078A6815-B1E3-47F5-A49B-C06B7D47F5E8
text: DEPARTMENT OF PATHOLOGY AND LABORATORY MEDICINE. Date Coll. SPECIMEN. A. Gastrohepatic lymph node. B. Left lateral segment, stitch anterior. CLINICAL NOTES. PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Liver cancer. GROSS DESCRIPTION. A. Received fresh labeled "gastroheptic lymph node" are. two rubbery tan-red tissues in keeping with lymph nodes. averaging 1 cm in greatest dimension. The specimens are bisected. and entirely submitted independently in two blocks (one bisected. node per cassette) . B. Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled "left. lateral segment, stitch anterior" is a wedge shaped 12. x. 5.8 x 3.5 cm portion of focally cauterized red-brown liver. parenchyma with a single suture designating anterior as stated. previously. A palpable slightly protuberant lesion is noted along. the anterior surface of the specimen. The anterior and posterior. aspects in the vicinity of the mass are inked orange. The hepatic. capsule is focally cauterized smooth to scabrous tan pink-red. On. sectioning, there is a well circumscribed, 4.2 x 3 x 3 cm golden. brown mass lesion which extends to within 1 cm of the inked. cauterized resection margin (blue) and is within 0.25 cm of the. inked capsular surface, both anteriorly (blocks 4 and 5) and. posteriorly (blocks 6 and 7) A portion of tumor and a portion of. normal parenchyma are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. The parenchyma throughout the remainder of the specimen is uniform. red brown without additional mass lesion or abnormality. Representative sections are submitted in ten blocks as labeled. RS-10. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1-3 - Tumor to inked margin of resection; 4-7 -. tumor to inked capsular surface; 8-10 - random from remainder of. specimen. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION. A., B. Microscopic examination of the left lateral segment. of liver partial hepatectomy as well as the separately. submitted gastrohepatic lymph nodes reveals: Histologic type: Hepatocellular carcinoma. Histologic grade: 2 of 4 (moderately-differentiated) . Tumor size: 4.2 cm. in greatest dimension. Primary tumor (pT) : No extension beyond the hepatic parenchyma is. identified. No lymphatic space invasion is identified. (pT1). Margins of resection: Negative for tumor. Vascular invasion: A focal area suggestive of vascular invasion is. identified in slide B1. No staining around tumor cells with CD31,. CD34, or D2-40 immunohistochemical stains was identified. Multiple levels were examined and no diagnostic vascular invasion. was seen. Regional lymph nodes (pN) : The two gastrohepatic lymph nodes. submitted in specimen A are both negative for tumor (pNO) . Distant metastasis (pM) : Cannot evaluate, pMx. Other findings: The tumor is notable for steatosis and bile. accumulation within acini. The background hepatic parenchyma is. notable for some mild non-specific chronic portal inflammation. No. background hepatocellular necrosis is identified. No significant is. background steatosis is identified. No iron accumulation. identified. There is a significant amount of lipofuscin granules. No PAS positive diastase resistant alpha-1 antitripsin globules. are identified. No. hyaline is identified. Trichrome,. reticulin, PAS, PAS with diastase and iron stains were evaluated. on block B9. 3, 4, 18x5, 20x3. [A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified as. analyte specific reagents. These antibodies are monitored and. controlled in our laboratory and their performance for in vitro. diagnosis is well described in the medical literature. They have. not been cleared or approved by the FDA.]. DIAGNOSIS. A. Gastrohepatic lymph nodes, biopsy: Two lymph nodes negative for malignancy. Lipogranulomatous inflammation present. Liver, left lateral segment, partial hepatectomy: Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately-differentiated (grade. 2). Solitary tumor, 4.2 cm. in size. No lymphovascular space. invasion identified (pT1). Margins of resection negative for tumor. Background hepatic parenchyma with non-specific grade 1 of 4. chronic hepatitis with no significant fibrosis. miscronic Signature). End Of Report ---.
