patient_filename: TCGA-G3-A25Z.001A2553-3F5F-4A74-88E6-03B42C061E6D
text: PHN: ACB: Telephone: Encounter: Surgical Patholoav Report. Collected Date: Received Date/Time: Specimen Description. A. Gallbladder. B. Liver. Clinical Information. Hepatocellular carcinoma, hepatitis B. Diagnosis. A. Gallbladder: No pathologic diagnosis. B. Liver: Chronic hepatitis B of mild activity (Grade 2). Fibrosis, severe, (Stage 3). Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated, 3.0 cm in the. greatest dimension (progressed type), completely excised. No. Chart Request ID: Pathology: Provider - Permanent. Print Date/Time: www. PHN: ACB: Collected Date: Received Date/Time: evidence of endothellum-tined space invasion. Gross Description. Received are specimens A to B. All requisitions and specimen containers are labelled with the patient's name. The cassettes and AP identifiers are labelled with the Surgical Number. A. The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin and consists of an intact gallbladder. measuring 7.5 x 4.0 X 3.0 cm. The serosal surface is tan and smooth. The lumen contains bile. Calculi are not grossly. identified. The mucosal surface is bile stained and velvety. The wall averages 0.2 cm in thickness. The cystic duct is. patent. The cystic duct lymph node is identified. Representative sections are submitted in one cassette. B. The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin and consists of a portion of liver weighing. 101.8. g. and. measuring 10 x 6 x 5.4 cm. The resection margin is dyed blue. Upon sectioning a firm tan mass is identified. measuring 3.0 X 2.0 x 1.7 cm. This mass is located 0.5 cm from the capsular surface and comes within 1.0 cm of the blue. painted resection margin. The remainder of the liver parenchyma is grossly unremarkable. Representative sections are. submitted as follows: B1 - section of the mass in relation to the capsular surface. B2 - section of the mass in relation to the closest blue painted margin. B3 - further section of the mass. B4 - section of grossly unremarkable liver parenchyma. One section was also submitted for the. study. Chart Request ID: Pathology: Provider - Permanent. Print Date/Time: www.
