patient_filename: TCGA-3K-AAZ8.61B69388-FA7E-4AE5-A3F5-104BCE12284F
text: SPECIMEN(S) RECEIVED. SEGMENT (FIVE) V LIVER RESECTION. FINAL DIAGNOSIS. SEGMENT (FIVE) V LIVER RESECTION: Specimen: Liver. Procedure: Partial hepatectomy. Minor hepatectomy (less than 3 segments). Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: the largest tumor mass is 5.5 cm. Tumor Focality: Multiple (large dominant tumor mass with adjacent satellite lesions). Histologic Type: Hepatocellular carcinoma. Histologic Grade: Gl: Well differentiated. Tumor Extension: Tumor confined to liver. Margins: Parenchymal Margin. Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest parenchymal margin: 0.9 cm. Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Macroscopic Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion (V). Not identified. Microscopic (Small Vessel) Invasion (L): Present. Note: Both the histomorphology and staining patterns (Elastic special stain, CD34 and D2-40 immuno stainings) support the. presence of vascular invasion. Perineural Invasion: Not identified. Pathologic Staging (pTNM): TNM Descriptors (required only if applicable). m (multiple primary tumors). Primary Tumor (pT). pT3b: Single tumor or multiple tumors of any size involving a major branch of the portal vein or hepatic veins. Regional Lymph Nodes (pN). pNX: Cannot be assessed. No regional lymph nodes submitted or found. Number of lymph nodes examined: 0. Number of lymph nodes involved: o. Distant Metastasis (pM). Not applicable. Additional Pathologic Findings: Fibrosis score: Trichrome stain shows portal and periportal fibrosis, bridging with occasional nodules (Incomplete Cirrhosis) (Ishak. score 5) (F1). Mild Steatosis. Iron stain is negative. Clinical History: Hepatitis C infection. Comment: AJCC PATHOLOGIC STAGE: (pT(m)3b; pNx). THIS CASE HAS BEEN REVIEWED IN THE. Immunohistochemistry Disclaimer: These tests were developed and their performance characteristics determined by the manufacturer. They have not been cleared. or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, however, the FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not. necessary. The tests were used for clinical purposes and should not be regarded as investigative or for research. CLINICAL DIAGNOSIS AND HISTORY. Hepatocellular carcinoma. FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS. SEGMENTAL RESECTION OF LIVER. MULTINODULAR TUMOR MASS, 5.5 CM, 1.5CM AWAY FROM CLOSEST. PARENCHYMAL MARGIN,. GROSS DESCRIPTION. The specimen is received fresh in a single container labeled with the patient's name, medical record number, and identified as. "Segment V Liver Resection". The specimen consists of a segmental resection of liver measuring 12 x 7.5 x 5.5 cm and weighing. 204.3 grams. The specimen has been oriented by the surgeon with one stitch marking the lateral pole. There is a discolored area. on the surface measuring 6.5 x 4.0 x 3.5 cm. The resection margin has been inked black and the capsule which appears intact is. inked blue. On serial sectioning a 5.5 x 4.8 x 3.5 cm, multinodular, friable, tan mass with focal hemorrhages was identified in. addition to multiple adjacent satellite tumor nodules measuring up to 1.5 x 1 x 1 cm. The closest parenchymal margin is 1.5 cm. away. The largest tumor mass abuts the capsule. An intraoperative consult has been performed. The specimen has been. submitted representatively in eight cassettes: 1- tumor and satellite lesions closest to the resection margin, 2- tumor plus capsule,. 3- tumor nodules, 4- tumor with adjacent thickened capsule, 5- a perpendicular section of the lateral margin, 6- perpendicular and. shaved mediai margins, 7- tumor plus capsule, and 8- tumor in relation to resection margin. the diagnosis(es) related thereto.
