patient_filename: TCGA-ZP-A9CZ.C3F4669C-9E5D-4A46-84A8-E78BF2D5EA92
text: Results History. Component. Specimen: Performing Physician: A. Hypervascular liver lesion segment 6. Clinical Notes: Liver mass. Cirrhosis. Rule out malignancy . Hep B. carrier. Fresh tissue sent to. tissue bank. Diagnosis: A. Liver, segment 6, excision: - Well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma (2.0. cm). - Surrounding liver with bridging fibrosis (stage. 3). - AJCC Stage: pT1 pNX pMX. - Please see Tumor Characteristics. NOTE: The previous case. was reviewed in. conjunction with this case. (Electronically signed bv). Verified: Tumor Characteristics: A: Liver, Resection (AJCC 7th Ed., 2010). MACROSCOPIC. SPECIMEN TYPE: Segmentectomy (segment 6). FOCALITY: Solitary (specify location) : Segment 6. TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 2.0 cm. Additional dimensions: 1.5 x 1.5 cm. MICROSCOPIC. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GI: Well differentiated. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT). pT1: Solitary tumor without vascular invasion. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) : pNX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed. MARGINS: Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 12. mm. Specify margin: Parenchymal. LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION: Macroscopic Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion. Not identified. Microscopic (Small Vessel) Invasion. Not identified. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Bridging fibrosis. COMMENT (S) : DISTANT METASTASIS: Cannot be assessed. Gross: A. The specimen is labeled "hypervascular liver lesion. segment 6. Received in. is a 22 gm, 5.0 x 3.5 x. 2.5 cm portion of liver which is received in two pieces. The capsule is purple-gray and smooth with a 1.5 x 1.5 x 0.5. cm white-gray nodular bulge. The resection surface is. marked with black ink. Further sectioning reveals a 2.0 x. 1.5 x 1.5 cm well-circumscribed, tan-gray mass corresponding. to the capsular bulge. The mass exhibits a nodular, solid,. tan cut surface. The mass is 1.2 cm from the closest black-. inked resection surface. The mass is well-demarcated from. the remaining hepatic parenchyma is tan-brown. A portion of. the mass and unremarkable liver is sent to. tissue bank. Representative sections are then submitted for. permanent as follows: Cassette Designation: Al. Mass with closest resection margin. A2-4. Mass with adjacent parenchyma. A5. Unremarkable parenchyma. Microscopic: A histological examination has been performed. A. H and E and trichrome-stained sections show a well-. circumscribed nodule composed of hepatocytes with thickened. cell plates. A nodular architecture is present in this. area. The neoplastic hepatocytes contain increased NC ratio. and pleomorphic nuclei. A reticulin stain demonstrates loss. and paucity of the reticulin network. The surrounding liver. parenchyma demonstrates portal tracts with bridging. fibrosis. Administrative Notes: CPT: No charge codes are associated with this case. Entrv Date and Time. Entered bv. In process.
