patient_filename: TCGA-4R-AA8I.1898901D-903B-48F4-B378-41144929245D
text: Result Data. Component. Lab. Clinical History. Unknown. Liver mass. Gross Examination. Unknown. A. "Partial left liver resection", received fresh for frozen section and. placed in formalin on. is an 84 gm, 12 x 5.8 x 3 cm portion of. liver. The resection margin is inked black. On sectioning there is a 2.8 X. 2. 6 X 2.4 cm firm, tan-green, focally hemorrhagic, well circumscribed nodule. It is 0.8 cm from the resection margin and 0.1 cm from the capsule. The remaining parenchyma is tan and cirrhotic. The liver capsule is. multinodular with fibrous bands. A representative section was submitted as. frozen section AF1, transferred to block A7. BLOCK SUMMARY: 11-A5-representative nodule (50%). A1-closest approach to capsule. A2-closest approach to resection margin. A6-representative of cirrhotic parenchyma. A7-frozen section AF1 remnant (please note submitted in block A7, not A1). Intraoperative Consultation. Unknown. A. "Partial left liver resection": AF1 (representative of. nodule) -hepatocellular lesion consistent. with hepatocellular carcinoma. (Dr. Microscopic Examination. Unknown. Special stains are performed on block A3. The reticulin stain confirms loss. of reticulin meshwork in the hepatocellular carcinoma. The tumor displays. focal pseudoglandular growth pattern. The mucicarmine stain is negative. In the background uninvolved liver, the trichrome and the reticulin special. stains confirm the established cirrhosis. The portal tracts and the fibrous. septa contain mild to moderate mononuclear inflammatory infiltrate. There is. mild bile ductular proliferation, but the native bile ducts are intact. The. parenchyma within regenerative nodules exhibits occasional ballooned. hepatocytes with poorly-formed Mallory bodies. Patchy pericellular sinusoidal. fibrosis is present within the regenerative nodules. The copper stain. highlights mild copper deposit in periportal/periseptal hepatocytes. The PASD. stain reveals PAS positive, diastase resistant, granules in. periportal/periseptal hepatocytes. The iron stain is negative. Pathologic Stage. Unknown. PATHOLOGIC STAGE (AJCC 7th Edition) : pT2 pNX pMX. NOTE: Information on pathology stage and the operative procedure is. transmitted to this Institution's Cancer Registry as required for. accreditation by the Commission on Cancer. Pathology stage is based solely. upon the current tissue specimen being evaluated, and does not incorporate. information on any specimens submitted separately to our Cytology section,. past pathology information, imaging studies, or clinical or operative. findings. Pathology stage is only a component to be considered in determining. the clinical stage, and should not be confused with nor substituted for it. The exact operative procedure is available in the surgeon's operative report. Diagnosis. Unknown. A. "LIVER, LEFT LOBE" (PARTIAL LIVER RESECTION) : HEPATOCELLULAR CARCINOMA. Histologic type: HEPATOCELLULAR CARCINOMA. Histologic grade: MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED (GRADE 2). Tumor Size: 2.8 x 2.6 x 2.4 CM. Tumor Focality: SOLITARY (LEFT LIVER LOBE) . Tumor Extension: TUMOR CONFINED TO THE LIVER. Margins: NEGATIVE. Distance to closest margin: PARENCHYMAL MARGIN (0.8 CM). Vascular invasion. Major vascular invasion: ABSENT. Microvascular invasion: PRESENT. Perineural Invasion: NEGATIVE. Lymphatic Invasion: NEGATIVE. Regional Lymph Nodes: NOT SAMPLED. Additional findings: : CIRRHOSIS. SEE COMMENT. COMMENT: The uninvolved liver shows established cirrhosis. The presence of. steatosis, occasional ballooned hepatocytes, and patchy pericellular. sinusoidal fibrosis suggests steatohepatitis. The result of PASD and copper. stains are not specific, however, the possibility of Wilson's disease and. alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency needs to be clinically excluded. Dr. has reviewed case and confirms the presence of microvascular invasion. Comment: I certify that I personally conducted the diagnostic evaluation of the above. specimen (s) and have rendered the above diagnosis (es). Dr. M.D. Lab and Collection. Surgical Pathology on. Abnormality. Priority. Source. Routine. Authorizing Provider Information. MD. Surgical Pathology (Order. Authorizing: MD. Pathology and Cytology. Department: Released By: Release Date/Time. Start Date/Time. End Date/Time. Frequency. Duration. Priority. Once. 1 occurrence. Routine. Encounter. View Encounter. Reprint Requisition. Surgical Pathology (Order #. on. Original Order. Office. Pager/beeper E-mail. Authorizing Provider. There are no order-level documents. No order transmittal information available.
