patient_filename: TCGA-BC-A3KF.AFBED89A-FA3F-45E9-9824-AEE5F891C5B2
text: Diagnosis: A: Liver, capsule at lesser curve of stomach, excision. - Dense fibrous tissue with chronic inflammation and necrotic. debris with. numerous hemosiderin laden macrophages. - Negative for malignancy. B: Liver, segments 2 and 3, left hepatic resection. Histologic tumor type/subtype: hepatocellular carcinoma (see. comment). Histologic grade: grade 3 of 4 (Edmondson and Steiner. classification. Tumor location: segments 2 and 3. Tumor size: 10 cm. Focality/extent unifocal. Tumor necrosis/treatment effect: present; tumor appears. approximately 75%. viable. Vascular invasion: present. Perineural invasion: not identified. Capsular invasion: not identified. Margins: negative for malignancy; tumor is 4 mm from the cranial. hepatic margin and 4 mm from the caudal hepatic margin. Background liver: mild macrovesicular steatosis involving. approximately 20%. of hepatic parenchyma. AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT2 pNx. NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information. available at the. time of this report, and is subject to change pending clinical. review and. additional information. Comment: Immunohistochemical stains are performed and demonstrate the. tumor is diffusely. positive for HepPar-1 while being negative for CK7 and CK20. Vimentin and CD31. outline blood vessels. Overall the immunohistologic and. immunohistochemical. features are consistent with hepatocellular carcinoma. Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis: A frozen section was requested by Dr. on. at. from. FSA1: Liver, capsule at lesser curve of stomach, biopsy. - Chronic inflammation and fibrosis. Drs. at. am on. Frozen Section Pathologist: MD. Clinical History: The patient is a. -year-old female with a clinical diagnosis of. hepatocellular. carcinoma. Operation being performed is "left hepatic. resection". As per Web. Cis, the patient has a 9.2 X 8.9 mass involving segments 2 and 3. in the left. lobe of the liver. Gross Description: Received are two appropriately labeled containers. Container A is additionally labeled "liver capsule at lesser. curve of stomach". and holds one tan cassette and bits of soft tissue. The cassette. is. additionally labeled "MS11- FSA1". At frozen section specimen A. is. described as weighing 1.7 grams and measuring 3.4 X 1.7 x 0.5 cm. and appears as. a red/tan soft tissue fragment that was serially sectioned. A. representative. section was submitted into block FSA1. On gross examination the. remaining. strips of soft tissue are submitted into blocks A1 and A2 with. no tissue. remaining. Container B is additionally labeled "hepatocellular carcinoma,. segments 2 and 3. of liver, long stitch = cranial hepatic margin at IVC, short. stitch = caudal. hepatic margin". Specimen Type: Left hepatic resection, segments 2 and 3. Specimen Weight: 480 grams. Measurement 12.4 X 10.7 X 8.7 cm. Orientation The margin of resection has been previously inked. as. follows: long stitch half/black (cranial) , short stitch. half/blue (caudal). Mass: The cut section of the liver parenchyma shows a 10 X 7.9. X. 7.5 cm yellow/tan mass; focal areas of hemorrhage and necrosis. are evidence,. with an estimate percent necrosis at 30%. Adjacent liver tissue: Tan with no other masses or lesions. identified. Capsule: Shows focal fibrofatty adhesions with an area of the. liver mass. The remaining portion of the capsule is smooth. Major portal vein/ hepatic vein: N/A. Margins: At closest approach, the liver mass is 0.3 cm away from. the margin of resection. Gallbladder: Not present. Block Summary : Inking: Cranial margin/black, caudal margin/blue. B1-B2 - Tumor and margin of resection. B3 -. B4-B9 - Tumor, representative sections. B10 - Liver and normal liver, transition. B11 - Normal liver.
