patient_filename: TCGA-EP-A3JL.B277ACF9-B233-474B-975A-52FDE44F27E3
text: Final Surgical Pathology Report. Procedure: Diagnosis. A. Submitted as lymph node, biopsy: Benign soft tissue; lymph node. not identified. B. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy: Chronic cholecystitis. C. Liver, partial resection: Hepatocellular carcinoma,. oderately-differentiated, 2.5 cm in greatest dimension without. vascular invasion; negative margins of excision. Microscopic Description: Histologic type: Hepatocellular carcinoma. Histologic grade: Moderately-differentiated. Tumor size: Solitary tumor mass, 2.5 cm in greatest dimension. Primary tumor: pT1. Margins of resection: Negative (carcinoma is 5 mm from closest. resection margin). Vascular invasion: Negative. Regional lymph nodes (pN) : None submitted. Distant metastasis (pM) : Unknown. Comment: The presence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is confirmed. by reticulin staining, which shows loss of the normal hepatic. architecture with the nodular tumor, and by positive immunostaining by. HepParl. Stains for CK7, CK20, and CDX-2 are negative. 4, 3, 2, 18, 20x4. [A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified as. analyte specific reagents. These antibodies are monitored and. controlled in our laboratory and their performance for in vitro. diagnosis is well described in the medical literature. They have not. been cleared or approved by the FDA.]. Specimen. A. Lymph node. B. Gallbladder. C. Liver mass. Clinical Information. Liver cancer. Gross Description. A. Received unfixed, labeled lymph node, is a 0.7 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm tan. soft tissue fragment without discrete lymph node identified, entirely. submitted in one block. AS1. B. Received in formalin labeled "gallbladder" is a 5.5 x 2.0 X 1.2 cm. intact gallbladder. The serosa is pink-tan, smooth and glistening. The. cystic duct is patent. The specimen is opened and partially filled with. green-brown viscid bile. The mucosa is pink-tan and velvety. No. choleliths are identified in the specimen or the specimen container. The average wall thickness is 0.3 cm. Greater than 50% of the specimen. is submitted in 2 cassettes including cystic duct which is inked. RS 2. C. Received unfixed for tissue procurement, labeled liver mass, is a 5. x 5 x 4 cm wedge-shaped partial liver resection specimen, with. cauterized surface. There is a nodular, firm tan mass lesion, 2.5 cm. in greatest dimension and 0.5 cm from the resection margin. A portion. of tumor and uninvolved liver tissue is submitted for tissue. procurement. Representative sections in 4 blocks.
