patient_filename: TCGA-ZS-A9CG.8A0E7BA8-7262-4832-89DA-61893BE4B458
text: Nature of Specimen (s). 1. Extended right hepatectomy for presumed primary hepatocellular. carcinoma. 2. Gallbladder. Clinical Information Supplied. Large ?primary liver tumour. Recent sigmoid colectomy for. carcinoma. Per TSS, the path ON the sigmoid colectomy PROCUREMENT DATE. Macro Report. Liver Resection Dataset. Gross description. Type of specimen: Non-anatomic (wedge) resection. Site/Segment of origin: Right. Specimen dimension: 200 x 180 x 110mm. Number of tumours present : 1. Maximum tumour diameter : 85mm. Satellite tumour present : Distance from nearest hepatic. resection margin: 12mm. Macroscopic involvement of vessels : Liver capsule intact and smooth: No, see comment. Invasion of adherent or adjacent. organ: Lymph nodes received: ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF RECEIPT. WARD SECRETARY. DOCTOR. Comments and block codes. Received is a portion of liver measuring 200x180x up to 110mm. Slicing reveals a tumour closely abutting the serosal surface that. measures approximately 85x70x60mm. The serosal surface is puckered. but there is no evidence of macroscpic invasion through the liver. capsule. The cut surface of the tumour is cream with a green tinge. and appears to have a fibrous capsule. The capsule is puckered but. there is no evidence of macroscopic invasion through the liver. capsule. Throughout the rest of the liver there are multiple. distended vessels within portal tracts that appear to be filled. with cream-coloured tissue similar to that of the tumour. The. tumour lies 12mm away from the resection margin which is inked. blue. The background liver does not appear obviously cirrhotic. Within the background liver a single other cream coloured nodule. is noted that does not seem to be associated with a portal area. that measures 4mm in maximum dimension. Blocks taken: 1A-1H representative sections through the tumour;. 1I section of other nodule noted; 1J-1L representative sections. through the dilated vessels in the background liver; 1M normal. background liver. 2. A gallbladder containing bile with no obvious focal lesions. identified. Histology. Tumour type: Hepatocellular carcinoma NOS. Tumour grade/differentiation. by worse area: Moderate. Tumour cells present at margin: If margin is clear: is clearance >10mm: Yes. Macroscopic vascular invasion. confirmed: ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF RECEIPT. WARD SECRETARY. DOCTOR. Microscopic vascular invasion. identified: Evidence of response to. preoperative treatment: N/A. Background liver. Fibrosis: : None present. Aetiology : Not known, see comment. Comments. A single tumour is surrounded by a fibrous capsule and consists of. sheets of hepatocytes with loss of the normal liver architecture. There is evidence of cytological atypia and nuclear pleomorphism. In some areas of the tumour there is formation of variably sized. gland like structures. Outwith the tumour multiple foci of. lymphovascular invasion are identified. There is no significant. bile production by the tumour. The features are those of a. hepatocellular carcinoma. Within the surrounding normal liver there is evidence of chronic. inflammation and regenerative liver nodules. Within the portal. areas through the rest of the liver there is evidence of portal. vein distention. The portal vein branches are completely full of a. foreign body giant cell reaction to embolic material. There is no evidence of fibrosis within the background liver. There is some mild steatosis and mild chronic inflammation within. the portal areas. A Perl's stain for iron does reveal scattered. iron deposition within hepatocytes. There is no evidence of any. obvious underlying pathology to suggest the aetiology of this. hepatocellular carcinoma. However, the presence of iron within. hepatocytes does raise the possibility of a iron storage disorder. and clinical correlation is advised. Pathological staging: pT2, pNx, pMx. 2. Sections show a heavily autolysed gallbladder but with no. evidence of malignancy. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF RECEIPT. WARD SECRETARY. DOCTOR. Signature of Pathologist (s). ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF RECEIPT. WARD SECRETARY. DOCTOR.
