patient_filename: TCGA-G3-A3CK.ED5E5458-1E88-4126-B46B-96297F5A0FFF
text: Latest Version. Encounter Number. Lab Patient Demographics. (for verification purposes). Collected Date/Time. Received Date/Time. Specimen Description. A. Gallbladder. B. Liver section 5 - 6. Clinical Information. A. year old male with hepatocellular carcinoma related to chronic hepatitis B. infection. Diagnosis. A: Gallbladder, Cholecystectomy: Unremarkable gallbladder. B: Liver, Partial Resection: Hepatocellular carcinoma (see synoptic report). Focal vascular invasion present. Resection margin free of carcinoma. Bile duct adenoma. 1. httns./. Synoptic Report. B: Liver, Resection, Macroscopic. Specimen: Liver. Gallbladder. PROCEDURE: Partial hepatectomy. Minor hepatectomy (leas than 3 segments). TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 2.5 cm. Additional dimensions: 2.3 x 2.2 cm. TUMOR FOCALITY: Solitary (specify location) : segments 5, 6. B: Liver, Resection, Microscopic. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GII: Moderately differentiated. TUMOR EXTENSION (select all that apply) : Tumor confined to liver. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) : pT2: Solitary tumor with vascular invasion or multiple tumors none more than 5 cm. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) : pNX: Cannot be assessed. DISTANT METASTASIS (pM) : pMX: Cannot be assessed. MARGINS: Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin. 12. mm. VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V) : Absent. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Cirrhosis/fibrosis. Hepatitis (specify type) b. COMMENT (s) : There are tumor emboli in the small vessels adjacent to the tumor mass. Gross Description. Received are specimens A to B. All requisitions and specimen containers are labelled. with the patient's name. The cassettes and AP identifiers are labelled. with the Surgical Number. A. The specimen is received fresh, subsequently placed into formalin and consists of an. intact gallbladder measuring 8.0 x 3.5 x 2.5 cm. The serosal surface is tan and smooth. The lumen contains bile and multiple friable yellow calculi measuring up to 0.2 cm in. thickness. The mucosal surface is bile stained and velvety with areas of yellow. speckling. The wall averages 0.2 cm in thickness. The cystic duct is patent. The cystic. duct lymph node is not grossly identified. Representative sections are submitted in one. cassette. B. The specimen is originally received fresh, subsequently placed into into formalin and. consists of a portion of liver weighing 199.4 grams and measuring 12.7 x 9.0 x 5.5 cm. The resection margin is dyed blue. The capsular surface is slightly nodular. Upon. sectioning, two firm tan nodules are identified. The smaller nodule measures 0.8 x 0.7. x. 0.5 cm. This nodule grossly involves the blue-painted resection margin and comes to. within 0.5 cm of the capsular surface. The second mass measures 2.5 x 2.3 x 2.2 cm. This. mass is 2.0 cm from the first mass and grossly comes to within less than 0.1 cm from the. capsular surface and 1.2 cm from the blue-painted resection margin. The remainder of the. liver parenchyma is grossly unremarkable. Representative sections are submitted as follows: B1. section of the smallest mass in relation to the blue-painted resection margin. B2. section of the smaller mass in relation to the capsular surface. B3. section of grossly unremarkable liver between the first and second mass. B4. section of the second mass in relation to the capsular surface. B5. section of the second mass in relation to the blue-painted resection margin. B6. further section of the second mass. B7. section of grossly unremarkable liver. Please note, sections have been taken for tumor banking. Additional Information. Encounter Number. Patient Location.
