patient_filename: TCGA-2Y-A9HB.B5784B06-665F-4DA3-A3EF-CF98A84B2FB7
text: Final Diagnosis. A. GALLBLADDER AND CONTENTS, CHOLECYSTECTOMY: Chronic cholecystitis with cholesterosis. There is no evidence of dysplasia or carcinoma. B. LIVER, SEGMENT 4B, "HEPATOMA", SEGMENTAL RESECTION: Hepatocellular carcinoma, well to moderately differentiated, arising in a background of. cirrhosis. See Key Pathological Findings. See comment. I,. the attending pathologist, personally reviewed all. slides and / or materials and rendered the final diagnosis. Electronically. Comment. The tumor is immunohistochemically positive for HepPar-1 and Glypican 3, and negative for AFP,. cytokeratin 7 and cytokeratin 20. The immunostains were performed with appropriate controls. These. results support the above diagnosis. Key Pathological Findings. Specimen type: Hepatic segmental resection. Tumor size: 2.6 cm in largest diameter. Histologic type: Hepatocellular carcinoma. Histologic grade: Well to moderately differentiated. Tumor necrosis: No necrosis. Perineural invasion: Not identified. Venous (large vessel) invasion: Not identified. Angiolymphatic invasion: Present. Parenchymal margin: Negative of malignancy. Additional Pathologic Findings: Cirrhosis, moderately active. Lymph nodes: No Lymph nodes identified. Specimen(s) Received. A. GALLBLADDER AND CONTENTS. B. RESECTION SEGMENT 4B LIVER HEPATOMA GROSS MARGINS. Clinical History. Hepatocellular carcinoma segment 5. Preoperative Diagnosis. None provided. Intraoperative Consultation. GROSS EXAMINATION: B. RESECTION SEGMENT 4B LIVER HEPATOMA, GROSS MARGINS: Tumor, 2 cm from margin. Comment: This gross section diagnosis/result was communicated to and acknowledged by. in OR. I,. have performed the intraoperative consultation and issued the above. diagnosis. Gross Description. A. The specimen is received fresh, labeled "gallbladder and contents," and consists of an intact. gallbladder 29.9 g, 7 x24x2.4 cm. The serosa is pale green-gray, smooth and glistening. The. resection margin is roughened with cauterization. The cystic duct is patent (3 mm diameter). The. lumen contains abundant dark green viscous bile. No calculus is seen. The mucosa is bile-stained. with yellow streaks. The cut surfaces exhibit soft, congested tissue with a wall thickness of 1-2 mm. No lesion is grossly seen. Representative sections, including the cystic duct margin are submitted in. A1-A2: A1: Cystic duct margin, tangential. A2: Representative of neck, body, and fundus mucosa. The specimen is not submitted for Tissue Procurement Laboratory. B. The specimen is received fresh for gross consult, labeled "resection segment 4B liver. hepatoma," and consists of a red-tan, unoriented, firm, partial hepatectomy specimen, 101.7 g. 6.7 x. 5.9 x 5 cm. The capsule is intact and bosselated. The margin of resection is inked blue. The cut. surfaces exhibit a light green-tan, circumscribed, firm, lobulated tumor mass, 2.6 cm diameter. The. mass approximates the capsule separated by a thin membrane, and is 1.9 cm from nearest resection. margin. The mass abuts vasculature; however, appears to be unaffected. Necrosis is minimal, and. no cyst or hemorrhage is seen. The remaining parenchyma is tan-gray, coarsely lobulated and. smooth. Representative sections are submitted in B1-B5 as labeled: B1: Mass to nearest resection margin. B2-B3: Mass with capsule and adjacent vasculature. B4: Mass with capsule and potential satellite lesion (7 mm). B5: Normal parenchyma. The specimen is submitted for Tissue Procurement Laboratory, as reflected in cassette B2.
