patient_filename: TCGA-G3-A5SI.C3CB3D42-9123-4D51-9FA8-D272D5F62F7B
text: Note: If you do not see "END OF PRINTED REPORT" at the bottom of th. the report YOU DO NOT HAVE THE ENTIRE REPORT. Please try printi. CONFIDENTIAL. Relevant. information. Demographics. (for verification. Drtn of Rirth. purposes). Collected Date/Time. Received Date/Time. Specimen Description. A. Segment V and VI, and gallbladder. Clinical Information. Hepatocellular carcinoma. Infectious patient:Yes - Hep C positive. Immunocompromised: No. History of neoplasm: No. Diagnosis. A. Liver Segment V and VI, and Gallbladder, Partial Hepatectomy and Cholecystectomy: Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated. One large tumor, 3.4 CIII in greatest dimension, with microscopic. foci of well circumscribed tumor nodules away from the main tumor,. possibly represent intrahepatic metastasis. No lymphovascular invasion identified. Background cirrhosis and chronic hepatitis. Resection margins negative for malignancy. Unremarkable gallbladder. One benign lymph node. See synoptic report. Verified: Synoptic Report. A: Liver, Resection, Microscopic. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GII: Moderately differentiated. TUMOR EXTENSION (select all that apply) : Tumor confined to liver. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) : pT2: Solitary tumor with vascular invasion or multiple tumors none more than 5 cm. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) : pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis. Number examined: 1. Number involved: 0. DISTANT METASTASIS (pM) : pMX: Cannot be assessed. MARGINS: Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V) : Absent. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Cirrhosis/fibrosis. Hepatitis (specify type) : Chronic Hepatitis. Gross Description. Received is a single specimen. The requisition and specimen container are labelled with. the patient's name. The cassette and AP identifiers are labelled with the. Surgical Number. A. The liver segment measures 7.5 x 6.0 x 5.0 cm. The liver resection margin is inked. blue. The surface is nodular and has a cirrhotic appearance. The attached gallbladder. measures 9.5 x 3.0 x 2.5 cm and has a smooth surface. There is one lymph node present. near the cystic duct resection site measuring 1.3 cm in greatest dimension. Serial. sectioning of the liver reveals a tan/yellow solid mass measuring 3.4 x 3.0 x up to 2.8. cm and has a slightly hemorrhagic area measuring 0. cm in greatest dimension on one. side; it bulges toward one area on the liver surface. The tumor has a lobular appearance. and is at least 1.5 cm from the liver resection margin. The rest of the liver parenchyma. appears nodular, with areas of green discoloration. No second mass lesion is identified. Grossly, the liver mass does not adhere or invade into the gallbladder. Opening of the. gallbladder reveals dark green velvety inner lining, with no calculi present and no. grossly identifiable lesion on the inner lining. Sections are submitted as follows: A1 - liver mass with the bulging surface. A2 - tumor with liver resection margin. A3 through A5 - mass with hemorrhagic area in A4. A6 - additional tumor with resection margin. A7 - gallbladder with underlying liver. A8 - liver tissue away from the mass. A9 - cystic duct margin. A10 - lymph node near the cystic duct, bisected. All - section of a small 0.2 cm nodular that is 0.8 cm away from the main mass. Pathologist Comment. Dr. has reviewed selected slides. Number. Encounter. Number. Patient Location. - END OF PRINTED REPORT -.
