patient_filename: TCGA-WQ-A9G7.211B2C4B-7DEB-4031-A3D2-5464A7386245
text: SURG PATH #: SPECIMEN CLASS: ALT ID#: SEX: F. DATE RECEIVED: DATE OF PRINTING: Material Received: A: gallbladder. B: right hepatic lobectomy-tumor bank. Historv: -year-old female with a right hepatic mass. Final Diagnosis: A. Gallbladder, "gallbladder", cholecystectomy: Focal mild chronic inflammation. B. Liver, "right hepatic lobectomy-tumor bank", partial hepatectomy: Poorly differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma. See comment. Minimal steatosis (1%) and focal portal inflammation. Comment: Immunohistochemical studies are performed. The tumor cells are positive for glypican 3, CK7 (focal and weak), MOC-31 and they. are negative for CK20, pCEA, and hepatocyte. Reticulin special stain shows loss of reticulin fiber. Liver (Hepatectomy)-HCC. Specimen Type: Partial hepatectomy. Tumor Size: 12.0 x 11.0 x 9.0 cm and 1.1 x 0.8 x 0.8 cm. Tumor Focality: Multiple (2). Histologic Type: Hepatocellular carcinoma. Histologic Grade: GIII: Poorly differentiated. Tumor Extension: Tumor confined to liver. History of previous treatment (TACE or RFA): No. Treatment Effect: Not applicable. Margins: Assessed margins are uninvolved by carcinoma. Parenchymal Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Vascular Invasion: Macroscopic Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion (V): Not identified. Microscopic (Small Vessel) Invasion (L): Not identified. Lymph Nodes: Number Examined: 0. Number Involved: 0. Date of Printing: SURG PATH #: ALT ID #: Additional Pathologic Findings: Minimal steatosis (1%) and focal portal inflammation. Gross Picture Taken: No. Pathologic Staging: p3aNXMn/a. Primary Tumor (pT). pT3a: Multiple tumors more than 5 cm. Regional Lymph Nodes (pN). pNX: Cannot be assessed. Distant Metastasis (pM). Not applicable. The pathologic stage assigned here should be regarded as provisional, as it reflects only current pathologic data and does not. incorporate full knowledge of the patient's clinical status and/or prior pathology. Pursuant to the. this case has been concurrently reviewed by the following. pathologist: who agrees with the above diagnosis. Attestation: By this signature, I attest that I have personally formulated the final interpretation expressed in this report and that the above diagnosis is based. upon my examination of the slides and/or other material indicated in this report. Interpreted by: Gross Description: A. Received in formalin, labeled with the patient's name and "gallbladder" is a 6.9 x 2.5 x 1.4 cm cholecystectomy specimen. The serosa is tan-purple and wrinkled. The gallbladder is opened to reveal a red-brown velvety mucosa with multiple yellow-gold. flecks. No calculi are grossly identified within the gallbladder or accompanying specimen container. The gallbladder wall ranges. in. size from 0.2 to 0.4 cm. The cystic duct remnant contains a metallic staple and appears to be patent. Representative sections. from the gallbladder body and fundus, and a shave of the cystic duct remnant (inked black) are submitted in cassette A1. B. Received fresh labeled with the patient's name and "right hepatic lobectomy" is a partial hepatectomy specimen weighs 1180. grams and measures 20.0 x 13.5 x 9.1 cm in dimension. The external surface is tan-brown and glistening with a white tumor. nodule measuring 0.8 x 0.8 x 0.8 cm. On the inferior surface, the serosa is focally bulging with an underlying mass. The area of. firmness. and protrusion measures 10.0 X 9.0 cm. The liver is serially sectioned at 0.5 cm intervals to reveal a smooth, glistening,. tan-brown cut surface. There is a tan-yellow, well circumscribed and encapsulated mass measuring 12.0 x 11.0 x 9.0 cm in. dimension. and is 3.2cm from the parenchymal resection margin. The surface of the tumor is tan-yellow, firm with focal areas of. hemorrhage. The mass extends to the inferior capsule of the right hepatic lobe. The perviously described nodule on the. superior. aspect of the liver upon sectioning measures 0.8 x 0.8 x1.1 cm. Both the large described mass and smaller described mass are. encapsulated and extend to the liver capsule. B1. Representative section of the vascular margin. B2. Representative section of the intrahepatic portal vein. B3. Representative section of grossly unremarkable hepatic tissue. B4. Tumor to inferior liver capsule (larger tumor). B5. Tumor to liver capsule (larger tumor). B6. Representative section of the smaller tumor to tumor capsule. B7-B9. Representative sections of tumor to normal appearing hepatic tissue. B10. One possible lymph node, bisected. If. immunohistochemical stains and/or in situ hybridization are cited in this report, the performance characteristics were determined by the. in compliance with CLIA'88. regulations. Some of these tests rely on the use of "analyte specific reagents" and are subject to specific labeling requirements by the FDA. Date of Printing: SURG PATH #: ALT ID #: Known positive and negative control tissues demonstrate appropriate staining. This testing was developed by the. It has not been cleared or approved by the FDA. The FDA has determined that such clearance. or approval is not necessary. Date of Printing:
