patient_filename: TCGA-2Y-A9H3.83E9C775-EE1D-4763-A448-BB677FC01FA0
text: Final Diagnosis. A. LIVER, PORTION OF SEGMENT 2 AND 3, PARTIAL HEPATECTOMY: Hepatocellular carcinoma, well-differentiated. See Key Pathological Findings. the attending pathologist, personally reviewed all. slides and / or materials and rendered the final diagnosis. Electronically. Ancillary Studies. Immunohistochemistry stain for CD31, performed with adequate controls on block A5, highlight the. vascular invasion. Special stains for reticulin and trichrome were performed with adequate controls on block A3 and A11. and were reviewed. Special stains for Iron, PAS, and PAS-D were performed with adequate controls on block A11 and. were reviewed. Key Pathological Findings. Specimen: Liver. Procedure: Partial hepatectomy. Tumor size: 5.9 X5.2x22 cm. Tumor focality: Solitary. Histologic type: Hepatocellular carcinoma. Histologic grade: Well-differentiated (G1). Tumor extension: Tumor is within 1 mm of visceral peritoneum. Parenchymal margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. (tumor is at least 8 mm away from the parenchymal margin). Vascular invasion. (macroscopic): Not identified. Vascular invasion. (microscopic): Present. Perineural invasion: Not identified. Pathological stage: pT2 pNX pMX. Additional pathologic finding: Non-neoplastic liver show macrovesicular steatosis with zonal distribution (Zone 3) and. no fibrosis (satge 0-1). There is no increase in stainable iron. Specimen(s) Received. A. PORTION OF SEG II AND III FS. Clinical History. LIVER CANCER. Frozen Section Diagnosis. FSA1: Malignant neoplasm, favor hepatocellular carcinoma. Intradepartmental Consultation: The case was also reviewed by. who concurs. with the above interpretation. FSA2: Margins (perpendicular), no evidence of malignancy. Comment: This frozen section diagnosis/result was communicated to and acknowledged by. in. at. I,. have performed the intraoperative consultations and issued the above. diagnosis. Gross Description. A. The specimen is received fresh for frozen section, labeled "portion of segment 2 and 3 and. consists of 89 grams, 8.7 x 6.5 x 3.1 cm wedge of liver with a moderate amount of attached fat. The. fat is focally adherent to the capsule and there is a 3.5 x 3.2 cm portion of adherent diaphragm. Sectioning reveals a lobulated, circumscribed, 5.9 x 5.2 x 2.2 cm tan nodule with focal necrosis and. gray-white fibrous septi. The tumor extends into the adherent fat. The parenchymal margin is inked. blue and the diaphragm margin black. The specimen is serially sectioned. Representative sections. are submitted as labeled. FSA1: Tumor. FSA2: Closest perpendicular parenchymal margin. A3: Tumor to overlying diaphragm. A4: Tumor to adjacent parenchyma. A5: Tumor. A6-A8: Tumor to adherent fat. A9-A10: Tumor. A11: Parenchymal margin. Tissue is submitted to Tissue Procurement Laboratory.
