patient_filename: TCGA-BC-A10W.A7F79765-5038-47AA-87B0-40E2D802E535
text: Diagnosis: A: Peritoneum, biopsy. - Fibroelastic proliferation consistent with adhesion, focal fat necrosis. - No malignancy is identified. The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed. B: Gerota's fascia, biopsy. - No evidence of malignancy. The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed. C: Gerota's fascia #2, biopsy. - Poorly differentiated carcinoma consistent with hepatocellular carcinoma extending to cauterized,. uninked tissue edge. The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed. D: Liver, right lobe, partial hepatectomy. - Poorly differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma measuring 11.6 cm in greatest diameter and extending. through the superior capsule. - Lymphovascular space invasion is identified. - Extensive geographic necrosis is seen. - Adjacent uninvolved hepatic parenchyma with chronic hepatitis, stage 3, grade 2. - Immunohistochemical stains for cytokeratin 20 with cytoplasmic positivity identified; no staining is seen. with cytokeratin 7 and EMA. E: Omentum, omentectomy. - No evidence of malignancy. The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed. F: Gerota's fascia #3, biopsy. - No evidence of malignancy. The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed. G: "Additional Gerota's fascia", removal. - Poorly differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma with extensive necrosis. H: Additional posterior margin, removal. -Poorly differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma with extensive necrosis. Comment: Dr. has reviewed the slides and agrees. A frozen section was requested. FSA1: Peritoneum, biopsy. - Benign fibroelastic proliferation, consistent with adhesions, focal fat necrosis. - No malignant neoplasm identified. FSB1 Gerota's fascia, biopsy. - Fibrous connective tissue with focal chronic inflammation. - Scant liver, benign appearing, no neoplasm identified. FSC1: Gerota's fascia #2, biopsy. - Poorly differentiated carcinoma, extending to uninked tissue edge. FSE1: Omentum, biopsy. - No carcinoma identified. FSF1: Gerota's fascia #3, biopsy. - No carcinoma identified. Clinical History: The patient underwent a previous fine needle aspiration of a liver mass involving. right lobe that was. significant for poorly differentiated carcinoma. The patient currently undergoes right lobe hepatectomy. Gross Description: Eight appropriately labeled containers are received. Container A holds a 2.0 x 1.0 x 1.4 cm red/tan irregularly shaped soft tissue fragment which has previously. been entirely submitted as FSA1 and is resubmitted for permanent sections as FSA1. Container B holds a 1.5 x 0.8 x 0.5 cm red/tan irregularly shaped soft tissue fragment which has previously. been entirely submitted as FSBI and is resubmitted for permanent sections as FSB1. Container C holds a 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm irregularly shaped red/tan soft tissue fragment which has previously. been entirely submitted as FSC1 and is resubmitted for permanent sections as FSC1. Container D holds an 1100 gram, 17.0 x 14.5 x 9.0 cm partial hepatectomy specimen. The capsule is. gray/tan and diffusely nodular. On the superior aspect of the specimen there is a 6.5 x 4.5 cm irregularly. shaped capsular tear. On the inferior aspect of the specimen there is a 3.5 x 3.5 cm irregularly shaped. capsular tear. The cut surface is diffusely green/gray and nodular. Also present is a 11.6 x 10.3 x 8.9. cm poorly circumscribed, variegated mass with geographic necrosis and hemorrhage. This mass comes to. within 2.2 cm from the previously inked black surgical margin. The tumor abuts the superficial capsular. margin and extends through the inferior capsular margin. D1 - superior capsular tear with tumor. D2 - superior capsule with tumor. D3-D7 - representative sections of tumor. D8,D9 - representative sections of uninvolved liver. Container E holds a 7.5 x 6.0 x 2.0 cm red/tan omentum with a 3.5 x 3.0 cm area of red, brown. (?hemorrhage/necrosis). A portion has been sampled and submitted FSE1. This is resubmitted for. permanent sections are FSE1 and representative sections are submitted as E1-E3. Container F holds a 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm irregularly shaped red/tan soft tissue fragment which has previously. been entirely submitted as FSB1 and is resubmitted for permanent sections as FSF1. Container G is additionally labeled "additional Gerota's fascia." It holds a 4.4 x 3.6 x 1.2 cm irregularly. shaped red/tan fibrofatty soft tissue. The specimen is serially sectioned and on cross section has a. variegated fibrofatty appearance. Representative sections are submitted in blocks G1-G4. Container H is additionally labeled "additional posterior margin." It holds a 2.0 x 1.4 x 0.5 cm red/tan. irregularly shaped fibrofatty soft tissue fragment. The specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted. in block H1-H2. Light Microscopy: Light microscopic examination is performed. I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have rendered the above. diagnosis(es).
