patient_filename: TCGA-LG-A9QD.D5BAD949-7001-4FAC-A7B4-E9B426A53A76
text: DATE OBTAINED: DATE RECEIVED: SUBMITTING MD: DIAGNOSIS. PARTIAL HEPATECTOMY (647 G) LEFT LATERAL (SEGMENT III): HEPATOCELLULAR CARCINOMA. Tumor type: Hepatocellular carcinoma. Histologic grade: Variable including grade I of IV (well differentiated adenoma-like) and grade II-III of IV. (moderately differentiated). Tumor size: 15 cm pedunculated tumor (with gastric compression clinically). 2 cm satellite tumor (approaching but not transected at parenchymal margin). Tumor multifocality: Present, as above. Vascular invasion: Not present. Hepatic capsule: No transcapsular invasion. Local extension: Organ-confined. Margins: -Hepatic parenchymal: negative (~1 mm). -Bile duct(s): N/A. -Vascular: N/A. Lymph nodes: N/A. Other findings: Steatosis (35-40%) and Mallory hyaline in well differentiated HCC; focal tumor necrosis. & hyalinization present; no background cirrhosis; non-specific triaditis; focal peliosis. AJCC stage: Stage IIIA; pT3a (assuming "cN0" and "cM0" status). COMMENT. As per the OP note, this represents a palliative resection to relieve gastric compression. Other lesions were reportedly present via. intraoperative ultrasound. Note is made of the prior core biopsy 1. Histologically this tumor shows equal components of well differentiated adenoma-like HCC with clonal evolution to a more. moderately differentiated HCC. 88329, 88309. Clinical Diagnosis and History: Hepatocellular cancer. Tissue(s) Submitted: LEFT LATERAL SEGMENT. Gross Description: The. specimen is received fresh for intraoperative consult and subsequently placed in formalin labeled left lateral liver segment and. consists. of a 21.5 (M to L) X 12 (S to I) x 5 (A to P) liver segment weighing 647 grams. The parenchymal resection margin is 6 x 14. cm in area. The capsule is dark brown and smooth with no capsular-invasive nodules. There is a 15 x 10 x 7.5 cm variegated. heterogenous, circular tan-yellow lesion with focal areas of hemorrhage and necrosis on the cut surface. There is also a satellite. nodule measuring 2 x 1.7 X 1.5 cm approaching but not transected at the parenchymal resection margin. The uninvolved liver. parenchyma is tan-brown without nodularity. Representative samples are submitted labeled 1A - 1R. 1A: satellite nodule to margin. 1B: main tumor to margin. 1C: main tumor to capsule. 1D: main tumor to normal. 1E-1M: representative tumor. 1N-10: representative normal parenchyma. 1P: normal parenchyma to margin. 1Q: tumor to normal parenchyma to capsule. 1R: additional tumor. Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis. Hepatocellular tumor; A representative section of tumor was submitted for. issue banking), upon O.R. receipt.
