patient_filename: TCGA-ES-A2HS.53AB28EC-71C0-4AF0-93DA-FE72CD7FE19B
text: Medical Record A-. Sex: M. Service Date: Patient's location: Report type: I Surgical. Date Obtained: Date Received: Referring Physician/Surgeon(s). Service: Transplant Surgery. SPECIMEN(S) SUBMITTED/ PROCEDURES ORDERED: A. Gallbladder (. B. Left lateral segment i. B. Frozen Section Charge. CLINICAL HISTORY: year old white male with history of prostate cancer status post radiotherapy, now with liver. mass. GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received the following specimen(s) in the Department of Pathology, labeled with the patient's. name and hospital #: A. Gallbladder. B. Left lateral segment. A. The specimen is received fresh and consists of an 8.0 x 4.5 x 1.0 cm gallbladder with a 2.0 cm segment of cystic. duct. The duct is 0.5 cm in diameter. The serosa is glistening and focally hyperemic. The lumen contains dark. green viscous material and there are no stones in the lumen or in the container. The cosa is velvety and dark. green. A representative section has been submitted in cassette A1. (: B. The specimen is received fresh labeled "left lateral segment" and consists of a lett lobe u nver which is 18.5 x 13.2 x. 0.3 cm and weighs 498.0 grams. Capsular surfaces are mostly smooth with a few adhesions. Cut surfaces reveal a. singular well circumscribed homogeneous beige tumor nodule measuring 3.7 x 2.0 cm. The tumor is 0.1 cm from. the inked/cauterized margin and abuts a distal branch of portal vein. The liver parenchyma is uniformly tan, without. nodularity. A portion of tumor is sent for frozen section. Frozen section diagnosis is "hepatocellular carcinoma" as. per. apresentative sections are submitted as follows: FSB1. Lert lateral segment. B2-B6. Hepatic tumor. B7-B8. Normal liver. DIAGNOSIS: A. Gallbladder: - Histologically normal gallbladder. B. Left lateral segment: - Hepatocellular carcinoma, well to moderately differentiated. Size 3.7 cm. Negative for significant necrosis. Negative for vascular space invasion. Tumor abuts surgical margin and branch of portal vein. AJCC Cancer Stage pT1NXMX (6th ed. 2002). - Background liver with nonspecific reactive changes, negative for significant fibrosis. "I. or my qualified designee, have supervised the resident in the gross examination and description and I have personally reviewed the gross. description and specimen preparations referenced herein, and have personally issued this report.". Medical Record ++. Page: 2. Resident/Prosector/Pathologist: ICD9 Codes: 155.0. Diagnostic/Retrieval Codes: Note: Test systems have been developed and their performance characteristics determined by : Some tests have not been cleared or. approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration The FDA has determined that such clearance IS not necessary. Inese tests are used for clinical purposes and should. not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA-88) as qualified to. perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing. 2 of 2.
