patient_filename: TCGA-G3-A5SJ.5237C744-2C11-4340-BC70-9AD10238F1E6
text: Note: If you do not see "END OF PRINTED REPORT" at the bottom of the last page of. the report YOU DO NOT HAVE THE ENTIRE REPORT Please try printing it again. CONFIDENTIAL. Relevant. Information. Demographics. Date of Birth: (for verification. Sex: M. purposes). Surgical Pathology Report+++++. Collected Date/Time. Received Date/Time. Specimen Description. A: Gallbladder. B: Liver tumor. Clinical Information. Liver lesion, hepatitis C. Diagnosis. A: Gallbladder, Cholecyetectory: Mild chronic cholecystitis. Negative tor acypial or malignancy. B: Liver Tumor, Local Resection: Diepatocellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated. Burrounding liver parenchyma with chronic hepatitis consistent with. HCV hepatitis with grade I, stage 3 change. Reporred by. Synoptic Report. B: Liver, Resection, Macroscopic. specimen: Liver. Gallbladder. PROCEDURE: Partial hepatectomy. +Minor hepatectomy (less than 3 segments). TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 2.3 cm. Additional dimensions: 2.2 x 1.5 cm. TUMOR FOCALIT?: Solitary (specify location) : location not given. B: Liver, Resection, Microscopic. HTSTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GII: Moderately differentiated. TUMOR EXTENSION (select all that apply): Tumor confined to liver. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) : pTl: Solitary tumor with no vascular invasion. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) : pNK: Cannot be assessed. DISTANT METASTASIS (pM) : pMX: Cannot be assessed. MARGINS: Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carc穩noma from closest margin: 13. mm. VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V) : Absent. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Hepatitis (specify type) : HCV chronic hepatitis. Gross Description. Received are specimens A and B. All requisitions and specimen containers are labelled with. the patient's name,. The cassettes and AP identifiers are labelled. with the Surgical Numbe. A: An intact gallbladder measuring 8.8 z. 3.2 x 2.7 cm. The serosal surface is slightly. roughened. The lumen contains green bile and no calculi, and the cystic duct is patent. The mucosa 13 velvety, and the wall averages 0.2 cm in thickness. The cystic duct. lymph. node is not identified. Representative sections are submitted in one block. B: The specimen 13 received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin and consists. of a segmental resection of liver measuring 7.3 x 3.8 x 3.3 cm. The capsular surface of. the specimen is relatively smooth except for a focal raised grey tan oval area measuring. 3.0 x 1.7 CIN. The margins are dyed with blue Lnk. The specimen is serially secticied to. reveal a well circumscribed grey tan ovoid mass measuring 2.3 x 2.2 x 1.5 cm and grossly. corresponds with the capsular lesion and comes to within 1.3 cm of the blue inked. resection margin. representative sections of tumor and gross involvement to capsular surface. representative section of tumor and grossly closest point of invasion to blue. inked. resection margin. No other lesions are grossly idencified. Microscopic Description. Sections show a relatively circumscribed, but lobulated unencapsulated hepatocellular. carcinoma in a subcapsular location. The surrounding parenchyma shows active chronic. inflammation with lymphoid follicle formation within portal tracts. Portal tracts are. expanded and portal-portal fibrous bands are formed, without complete nodule formation. Focal areas show active interface hepatitis in an occasional portal tract. Lobular. inflammation is minimal. There is mild macrovesicular steatosis. No other abnormal. inclusions are present. The hepatocellular carcinoma shows areas with well differentiated morphology, but there. are also areas with significant nuclear pleomorphism and mitotic activity. The cells are. arranged predominantly in sheets, but patchy areas show gland-like profiles of rosette. formation, as well as trabecular architecture. Immunostains show patchy HepParl staining,. but distinct and well developed canalicular pattern on CD10. CEA also shows focal. canalicular pattern, while CK19 shows patchy staining. Focal PAS positivity. in. microglandular lumina is seen. No clear evidence of vascular invasion can be identified. Number. Encounter. Number. Patient Location. - END OF PRINTED REPORT -.
