patient_filename: TCGA-BC-A10Z.427BA175-823D-4C68-B659-D53CFEB5EA45
text: Diagnosis: A: Liver, right, resection. - Moderately differentiated invasive hepatocellular carcinoma. - Tumor size 12 cm. - Tumor extends to the green inked hepatic surgical margin. - Tumor necrosis is present. - Tumor extends to and through the capsule at a region of capsular disruption (A6). - Changes suggestive of thrombosis with recanalization. - Liver uninvolved by tumor shows mild intrahepatic cholestasis. B: Gallbladder, cholecystectomy. - Cholesterolosis. - No evidence of cholelithiasis. - Two lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/2). Comment: None. Clinical History: The patient is with liver carcinoma. Gross Description: Two appropriately labeled containers are received. Container A is additionally labeled "right hepatic trisegment". The specimen was delivered to the gross. room by tissue procurement and subsequently placed in formalin. The specimen weighs 1280 gm, and. measures 19.5 x 17 x 12.5 cm. The surgical margin is inked green and demonstrates a rough irregular. surface. The liver capsule is red/brown, somewhat rubbery in architecture. A 6.7 x 3.0 x 3.0 cm somewhat. elliptical defect is present in the capsule of the liver from which a portion of the tumor has been removed. Serial sectioning reveals 12 x 11 x 10 cm well circumscribed white soft friable tumor. Throughout the. tumor there are scattered areas of black char-like pigment and areas of questionable necrosis. There are two foci of questionable extracapsular extension of the tumor. These areas are 1.0 cm in greatest. diameter and 0.5 cm in greatest diameter. Grossly the tumor appears to be less than 0.1 cm from the. surgical green inked margin and focally may extend to the margin. The remainder of the liver is tan/brown. with a somewhat micronodular pattern. Representative sections are submitted per block summary. A1-A2 - representative sections of tumor with adjacent surgical green inked margin. A3-A5 - representative sections of tumor. A6 - tumor at site of extracapsular extension. A7-A10 - representative sections of tumor. A11 - normal appearing liver. Container B is additionally labeled "gallbladder". Previously opened: Yes, there is one small foci in the distal portion of the gallbladder that is 0.3 cm in. greatest diameter. Measurements: 9.2 x 3.1 x 1.4 cm. External surface: Yellow/green/tan one surface of which is smooth and glistening and the opposite surface. is somewhat fibrotic which probably represents the hepatic attachment. There also are numerous fungating. yellow/tan nodules from the external surface at the distal portion of the gallbladder these nodules are 1.3 x. 1.0 x 0.8 cm. These nodules are also located at the proximal portion of the gallbladder and range in size. from 0.5 x 0.5 to 0.7 x 0.7 cm. Wall thickness: 0.2 cm. Mucosa: green velvety with cholesterolosis. Stones present: not identified. Other comments: none. Block B1: Cystic duct margin and representative section of lymph node located at the cystic duct as well as. nodules at the proximal portion of the gallbladder. B2: Representative sections of the body of the gallbladder and distal portion of gallbladder at site of. nodules. Light Microscopy: Light microscopic examination is performed. I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have rendered the above. diagnosis(es).
