patient_filename: TCGA-UB-A7MA.82349CD5-39AA-42F8-80A1-B438B2300D09
text: Result Impression. Sex: Female. Soc. Sec. #: Service Date: Client: FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS. A. Bile duct margin, biopsy: No tumor. B. Liver, left lobe, partial hepatectomy: Mixed. lepatocellular/cholangiocarcinoma extending to margin and invading. large vessels; see comment. C. Hepatic artery lymph node, excision: No carcinoma in one lymph node. (0/1). D. Anterior common hepatic artery lymph node, excision: No carcinoma. in one lymph node (0/1). E. Portacaval lymph node, excision: No carcinoma in one lymph node. (0/1). COMMENT: Liver Tumor, Including Intrahepatic Bile Duct, Synoptic Comment. - Tumor type: Mixed hepatocellular/cholangiocarcinoma. - Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Tumor size (maximum diameter of largest lesion) : 12.1 cm. - Tumor necrosis: <30%. Multifocality (more than one tumor separated by nontumorous liver. parenchyma) : Present. - Estimated total tumor diameter of all HCC foci: >12 cm. - Vascular invasion: Present in both large and small vessels (B2, B3,. B8). - Hepatic capsule: Tumor abuts capsule. - Local extension of tumor: Confined to liver. - Hepatic surgical margins: Positive (slide B3) ; see comment. - Bile duct margin (for cholangiocarcinoma) : Negative. - Non-neoplastic liver: No significant pathologic abnormality. - Lymph node status: Negative. - Negative; total number of nodes examined: 3. - AJCC Stage: pT3bNO. Immunoperoxidase and special stains were performed to confirm the. diagnosis and show the following staining pattern in tumor cells: - Chromogranin: Negative. - Synaptophysin: Negative. Arginase: Patchy positive, negative in some areas showing glandular. lifferentiation. - CK19: Strong and diffusely positive. - Mucicarmine: Negative. - MIB1: Briskly positive, with nuclear staining up to 40-50% of cells. Overall, the histopathology and immunohistochemical profile support a. diagnosis of mixed hepatocellular/cholangiocarcinoma. Histologic. sections show divergent differentiation with some larger cells showing. eosinophilic cytoplasm or fatty differentiation. These cells are. arranged in a trabecular architecture. Both the morphology as well as. strong positive staining for arginase supports hepatoid differentiation. in these areas. In other areas, discrete glands within sclerotic stroma. are seen. Luminal necrosis is seen within glands. A subset of these. areas of glandular differerentiation lack arginase staining. This. finding, along with the presence of necrosis provide evidence for a. component of cholangiocarcinoma. Of note, a mucicarmine stain is. negative, indicating a lack of mucin; however, this does not preclude a. diagnosis of cholangiocarcinoma. MIB1 staining shows a proliferative. index of up to 40-50%, suggesting a highly proliferative malignancy. Negative staining for synaptophysin and chromogranin argues against. neuroendocrine differentiation. Sections at the periphery of the main mass show multiple smaller. nodules, some of which are only apparent microscopically One of these. small nodules is found at the margin (slide B3) It is possible that. this nodule may represent venous invasion. have reviewed portions of this case. and concur with the diagnosis. Specimen (s) Received. A:Bile duct left (ink marks distal margin) FS. B:Left lobe liver. C:Hepatic artery lymph node. D:Anterior common hepatic artery lymph node. E:Portacaval lymph node. Intraoperative Diagnosis. FS1. (A) Bile duct, left, biopsy: Benign bile duct, almost entirely. denuded. Dr. agrees. Clinical History. The patient is a. -year-old woman with a left-sided liver mass. According to. she presented with left upper quadrant in. and a CT. at that time revealed a left-sided liver mass and no risk. factors for hepatocellular carcinoma. A core biopsy revealed. hepatocellular carcinoma with focal glandular differentiation. CK19-positive, AFP-negative, arginase-positive) . She is additionally. noted to have a history of splenectomy for hereditary spherocytosis and. is status post cholecystectomy in. for cholecystitis, which work-up. revealed papillary stenosis with a narrowing of the common bile duct. Gross Description. The case is received in five parts, labeled with the patient's name and. medical record number. Part A is received fresh and additionally labeled "2 bile duct left ink. marks distal margin frozen, and consists of a single fragment of. red-tan soft tissue (0.7 x 0.3 x 0.1 cm) marked by a circle of black ink. on the one end. The entire specimen is frozen for frozen section. diagnosis 1, and subsequently submitted in cassette A1. Part B is received fresh and additionally labeled "left lobe liver. orientation P, and consists of a partial hepatectomy (739.5 gm fixed;. 14.5 cm from right to left x 16.5 cm from anterior to posterior x 8.3 cm. from superior to inferior) without attached gallbladder. The specimen. is previously disrupted at the capsule with a section taken by the. surgeon for banking prior to receipt in Pathology. GROSS ABNORMALITIES: There is a white-tan, firm, multinodular. well-circumscribed mass (12.1 cm from right to left x 8 cm from superior. to inferior x 14 cm from anterior to posterior) that extends to the. capsule, which is distorted and contracted by the mass. The mass is. noted 0.5 cm from the resection margin (slice 6). There is no grossly. evident necrosis within the mass. Additionally, scattered smaller. white-tan nodules are seen adjacent to, but apparently distinct from the. mass. The liver parenchyma is otherwise red-brown, firm, and. unremarkable. No gallbladder is present. No lymph nodes are. identified. ORIENTED BY: Anatomic landmarks; hepatic ligament. INKING: - Liver capsule overlying mass: Inferior in blue and superior in green. - Resection margin: Black. POTENTIAL STUDIES: Normal and tumor are taken for tissue banking. CASSETTES: Representative sections are submitted: B1-B2: Mass, approach to margin, and vessels, slice 6. B3: Mass, approach to margin, and vessels, slice 7. B4-B9: Representative sections of mass, including mass. adjacent to capsule. B10: Uninvolved liver. Part C. is received fresh and additionally labeled "hepatic artery. lymph node, " and consists of a single, curved/irregular, soft, rubbery. red-tan lymph node (2.5 x 1 x 0.7 cm). The specimen is bisected and. entirely submitted in cassettes C1-C2. Part D is received fresh and additionally labeled "anterior common. hepatic artery lymph node, " and consists of a single, roughly ovoid,. soft, rubbery pink-tan lymph node (2.8 x 1.2 x 0.6 cm). The specimen is. bisected and entirely submitted in cassettes D1-D2. Part E is received fresh and additionally labeled "porta caval lymph. node, " and consists of a single, irregular, soft, rubbery pink-tan lymph. node (2.8 x 1.6 x 1 cm). The specimen is trisected and entirely. submitted in cassettes C1-C3. Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis. made by attending pathologist following review of all pathology slides. The attending pathologist has reviewed all dictations and preliminary. interpretations performed by any resident involved in the case and. performed all necessary edits before signing the final report. Pathology PDF Report. Show images for Surgical Pathology. Authorizing. Date/Time. Result History. This is NOT a Requisition. Requisition hyperlink below. Surgical Pathology (Order. Authorizing: Pathology and Cytology. Department: Images. Show images for Surgical Pathology. Release Date/Time. Start Date/Time. End Date/Time. Release Information. Released On. Released By. Frequency. Duration. Priority. Once. 1 occurence. Routine. Normal. Lab Collection and Receipt Information. Collect Time. Collected By. Lab Receipt Date. Lab Receipt Time. Office. Pager/beeper E-mail. Authorizing Provider. Parent Status: Completed. Result Impression. Sex: Female. Soc. Sec. #: FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS. Histochemical staining for iron and interpretation on. Background liver with 2+ positive staining (0-4+) . . COMMENT: A histochemical stain for iron was performed on block B10 of. This shows 2+ staining of hepatocytes and kupfer cells (scale 0-4+). Gross Description. block B10 is selected for histochemical staining. Clinical History. The patient is a -year-old woman with mixed. nepatocellular/cholangiocarcinoma and a history of hereditary. spherocytosis. An iron stain was requested by. Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis. made by attending pathologist following review of all pathology slides. The attending pathologist has reviewed all dictations and preliminary. interpretations performed by any resident involved in the case and. performed all necessary edits before signing the final report. Pathology PDF Report. Show images for Surgical Pathology. Authorizing Provider Information. Result History. This is NOT a Requisition. Requisition hyperlink below. Surgical Pathology (Order. Pathology and Cytology. Department: Show images for Surgical Pathology. Release Date/Time. Start Date/Time. End Date/Time. Release Information. Released On. Released By. Frequency. Duration. Priority. Once. 1 occurrence. Routine. Normal. Lab Collection and Receipt Information. Collect Time. Collected By. Lab Receipt Date. Lab Receipt Time. Office. Authorizing Provider. Parent Status: Completed. (This order does not yet have any children).
