patient_filename: TCGA-G3-A25W.F92FE7A0-15D4-45FD-BB39-E3022E30EB77
text: Laboratory Services. PHN: ACB: Telephone: Encounter: Received Date/Time: Specimen Description. A. Gallbladder. B. Liver. C. Tumor thrombus - left hepatic vein. Clinical Information. Hepatocellular carcinoma. Diagnosis. A. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy: -Normal gallbladder with no pathologic abnormality. B. Liver, partial hepatectomy: -Moderately differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma. -Solitary, 11.0 cm in greatest dimension, 0.8 cm from the resection. margin. -Background liver negative for cirrhosis or significant steatosis. C. Tumor thrombus, left hepatic vein: PHN: ACB: Surc. Received Date/Time: - -Hepatocellular carcinoma with necrosis. Verified: Synoptic Report. B: Liver, Resection, Microscopic. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GII: Moderately differentiated. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT): pT2: Solitary tumor with vascular invasion or multiple tumors none more than 5 cm. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN). DISTANT METASTASIS (pM). MARGINS: Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 0.8 mm. Specify margin: Parenchymal resection margin. Bile duct margin cannot be assessed. VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V): Present. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: None identified. Gross Description. Received are specimens A to C. All requisitions and specimen containers are labelled with the patient's name. The cassettes and AP identifiers are labelled with the Surgical Number. PHN: ACB: Surgicali Pathology Report. Received Date/Time: A. The specimen Is labelled as "gallbladder" and consists of a cholecystectomy specimen, measuring 6.0 x 2.5 x 2.5 cm. The gallbladder contains green bile and no stone. The gallbladder surface attached to the liver was sampled and. submitted in A1. Representative sections of the rest of the gallbladder wall are submitted in A2. B,. specimen is labelled as "Liver" and consists of a partial hepatectomy specimen weighing 723 grams that has been. previously. inked with silver nitrate. The resection margin has been painted black. The specimen measures approximately. 18.0 x 13.0 x 8.0 cm. Serial sectioning through the specimen shows that 95% of the specimen is occupied by a relatively. circumscribed, soft, tan mass lesion. The mass lesion measures 11.0 cm in greatest dimension. The cut surface is. hemorrhagic with possible necrosis. Grossly, the mass lesion is approximately 0.8 cm to the liver resection margin. Sections are submitted as follows: B1. Representative section of tumor with closest liver resection margin, which is painted. black. B2-B6. Multiple representative sections of the mass lesion. B7,88. Representative sections of the hemorrhagic and possible necrotic area. B9,810. Representative sections of the uninvolved background liver parenchyma. C. The specimen consists of one fragment of white solid mass lesion. It is submitted in toto in cassette C. Microscopic Description. The main tumor consists of nests and cords of malignant hepatic cells with enlarged nuclei and prominent nucleoli. Globular eosinophilic inclusions are seen in many hepatocytes. There are foci of hemorrhage and necrosis present.
