patient_filename: TCGA-MR-A8JO.DA03F6F5-2579-45B7-954B-8C0F8EFD0F75
text: Normal Blood ID: SPECIMEN(S): A: Left lower liver and tumor. B: Lesser curvature lymph nodes. C: Gallbladder. FINAL DIAGNOSIS: A. Left lower liver and tumor, Left hepatectomy: - Hepatocellular carcinoma, fibrolamellar variant, 13.5 cm. - Margins: Negative for carcinoma. - Non-neoplastic liver parenchyma with mild portal inflammation. - See cancer checklist and comment. B. Lesser curvature lymph nodes, excision: - One lymph node, negative for carcinoma (0/1). C. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy: - Chronic cholecystitis. COMMENT: The immunohistochemical stains performed with adequate controls shows. that tumor cells are positive for CK7 and CD68, supporting the above. diagnosis. Cancer checklist: Specimen: Liver. Procedure: Partial hepatectomy. Tumor Size: 13.5 X 12.5 X 8.0 cm. Tumor Focality: Solitary. Histologic Type: Fibrolamellar hepatocellular carcinoma. Histologic Grade: GIII, Poorly differentiated. Tumor Extension: Tumor confined to liver. Margins: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest parenchyma margin: 2 cm. Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified. Macroscopic Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion (V): Not identified. Microscopic (Small Vessel) Invasion (L): Not identified. Perineural Invasion: Not identified. Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): Number of Lymph Nodes Examined: 1. Number of Lymph Nodes Involved: 0. Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable. Additional Pathologic Findings: Mild portal inflammation. Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pT1 NO Mx. CLINICAL HISTORY: The patient is a -year-old male with left renal mass. Operative. Procedure: Partial hepatectomy. GROSS: Three formalin-filled containers are received, each labeled with the. patient's name and hospital identification number. A. The first container is received fresh and subsequently saved. in formalin in the container labeled "A-left lower liver tumor. short-stitch superior, long-stitch anterior." The specimen consists of. a 957 gm partial hepatectomy specimen measuring 15.5 cm from medial to. lateral, 15 cm from anterior to posterior, and 8.0 cm from superior to. inferior. The hepatic capsule is yellow-brown, smooth and mostly. occupied by a multinodular large mass. The specimen is oriented with a. short-stitch at superior and long stitch at anterior. On sectioning,. reveals a 13.5 x 12.5 X 8.0 cm, yellow-red variegated large mass. Focal. small cystic areas ranging from 0.1 to 0.5 cm in greatest dimension are. noted. The solid area is mostly yellow and focally red hemorrhages. Multifocal dark red and friable possible thrombi are noted ranging from. 0.5 to 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. The large mass is abutting to the. hepatic capsule surface; however, it is complete and intact. This mass. is moderately well defined and 2.2 cm to the closest parenchymal margin. and 2.7 cm to the hepatic vein and artery margins. This mass is. occupying 90 percent of total specimen and the remaining hepatic. parenchyma is yellow-brown with no cirrhotic changes. The specimen is. photographed and representative sections are submitted. Summary of Sections: A1 - vascular margins. A2-A3 - mass with closest parenchymal margin. A4-A5 - mass with thrombi. A6 - mass with yellow necrosis. A7-A8 - mass with surrounding hepatic parenchyma. A9 - mass. A10 - uninvolved hepatic parenchyma. B. The second container is received fresh for intraoperative. consultation and labeled "B-lesser curvature lymph node." The specimen. consists of a 1.2 X 0.8 X 0.6 cm lymph node. The specimen is entirely. submitted for frozen sections and remnants in B1FS. C. The next container is received in formalin and labeled. "C-gallbladder." The specimen consists of a 6.3 X 3.5 x 2.5 cm intact. gallbladder. The serosa is red-purple-green and smooth. The adventitia. is red-tan, which is inked black. The gallbladder is opened to reveal. approximately 20 mL dark green viscous bile in the lumen. The mucosa is. dark green and velvety. The cystic duct is patent and unremarkable. The gallbladder wall is 0.2 to 0.3 cm in thickness. No calculi are. identified. Representative sections to include cystic duct, fundus and. neck are submitted in C1. INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION: FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: AFS1: Lesser curvature lymph node. "No evidence of carcinoma.". MICROSCOPIC: Permanent sections confirm the frozen section diagnosis.
