patient_filename: TCGA-G3-A5SK.6FB76663-58FA-48DD-A0F8-136C975FE067
text: Note: If you do not see "END OF PRINTED REPORT" at the bottom of the last page of. the report YOU DO NOT HAVE THE ENTIRE REPORT. Please try printing it again. CONFIDENTIAL. Relevant. Information. Demographics. (for verification. Date of Birtr. purposes). Sex: M. urgical Pathology Report. Collected Date/Time. Received Date/Time. Specimen Description. A. Gallbladder. B. Segment 7- liver. wt 62 g. Clinical Information. Infectious patient:Yes, Hep C+ ve. Immunocompromised: NK. History of neoplasm: NK. Hepatitis C related cirrhosis; hypervascular lesion in segment 8. Diagnosis. A. Gallbladder;. No pathologic diagnosis. B. Segment 7, Liver: Well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma, solid variant, involving. deep margin. Chronic hepatitis C of mild activity. Cirrhosis. Verified: Gross Description. Received are specimens A rn a. All remisitions and specimen containers are labelled. with the patient's name,. The cassettes and AP identifiers are. labelled with the Surgical Number. A. The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin and consists. of an intact gallbladder measuring 9.5 x 4.5 x 3.0 cm. The serosal surface is slightly. hemorrhagic, smooth, congested and glistening. The adventitial surface is congested and. roughened. The cystic duct resection margin is identified and is patent. The cystic duct. lymph node is not identified. The lumen is filled with thick green mucinous bile. (measuring about 20 ml) Also thick partially solidified bile flakes are identified. attached to the mucosal surface of the fundus. The mucosal surface is green and slightly. velvety. The wall thickness of the gallbladder measures 0.1 cm. Specimen is serially. sectioned and representative sections are submitted in Al including cyst duct resection. margin and sections from neck, body and fundus. B. The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin and consists. of a portion of liver weighing 62 g and measuring 7.5 x 6.8 cm with a maximum thickness. of 2.9 cm. The serosal surface of a liver has a grey purple and dark brown slightly. roughened appearance. Serosal surface also appears slightly nodular. Resection margin of. the liver is marked with blue dye. Specimen is serially sectioned. A light tan opaque. nodule is identified on the cut surface of the specimen measuring 3.0 x 3.0 x 2.4 cm. This nodule grossly coming to within less than 0.1 cm of the blue inked resection margin. as well as serosal surface. The remaining cut surface of the liver has a light tan nodular appearance. Sections are submitted as follows: B1-5. - Sections from the opaque nodule also including blue inked resection margin. and the. serosal surface. B6, 7. - Sections from the remaining liver parenchyma. Number. Encounter. Number. Patient Location. - END OF PRINTED REPORT -.
