patient_filename: TCGA-G3-AAV0.07528302-2925-4767-A47C-FE4EBA621202
text: CONFIDENTIAL. Demographics (for. verification purposes). Date of Birth: Sex: M. Collected Date/Time. Received Date/Time. Specimen Description. Liver segments 6 and 7 @. Clinical Information. Hepatocellular cancer. Diagnosis. Liver (Segment 6 and .7), Resection: Moderately differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma, 5.5 cm in. greatest dimension, tumor confined within liver capsule, resection. margin uninvolved. Iron overload (2+). Verified: Synoptic Report. Specimen. Liver. PROCEDURE: Partial hepatectomy. Minor hepatectomy (less than 3 segments). TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 5.5. cm. Additional dimensions: 5 x 5 cm. TUMOR FOCALITY: Solitary (specify location) : segments 6 and 7. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GII: Moderately differentiated. TUMOR EXTENSION (select all that apply) : Tumor confined to liver. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) : pT1: Solitary tumor with no vascular invasion. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) : pNX: Cannot be assessed. DISTANT METASTASIS (pM) : pMX: Cannot be assessed. MARGINS: Parenchymal margin uninvolved. VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V) : Absent. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: None identified. Gross Description. Received is a single specimen container. quisition and specimen container are. labelled with the patient's name,. The cassette and identifiers are. labelled with the Surgical Number. The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin The container. is designated liver segment 6 and 7. The specimen consists of a wedge-shaped piece of. liver which measures 12.5 x 7.5 x 5.5 cm. The capsule has a nodular appearance and shows. peritoneal adhesions. The resection margin is painted black. The specimen is serially. sectioned. The liver parenchyma underneath the nodular adhesion shows a circumscribed. yellow tan single tumor which measures 5.5 x 5 x 5 cm. Sections: A1. representative section of grossly normal liver parenchyma. A2-4. tumor with overlying capsule. A5-7. tumor. A8. A9. tumor and closest resection margin. The closest margin is 1 cm from the tumor. Microscopic Description. Sections of the grossly described tumor show moderately differentiated hepatocellular. carcinoma which is confined within the liver capsule. The tumor shows clear cell change. in many of the sections. Intracellular and canalicular bile pigment is noted in the. neoplastic tissue. The resection margin is uninvolved. The surrounding liver parenchyma. has a normal architecture and shows no significant histologic abnormalities. special. stain for iron shows iron overload (2+) and special stain for alpha1-antitrypsin globule. is negative. Encounter Number. Patient Location.
