patient_filename: TCGA-UB-A7MC.B391B6EA-425D-411D-AA4C-EE43B861E807
text: (enter 1 per line): Specimen #1 LEFT HEPATIC. ARTERY LYMPH NODE for perm. Result Impression. Sex: Male. Soc. Sec. #: Locatic. Client: Physici. FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS. A. Lymph node, left hepatic artery, biopsy: No tumor in one lymph node. (0/1) . B. Lymph node, cystic artery, biopsy: No tumor in one lymph node. (0/1). C. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy: Focal mucosal autolysis, otherwise no. significant pathologic abnormality. D. Lymph node, portal caval, biopsy: No tumor in one lymph node (0/1) . E. Liver, right lobe, partial hepatectomy: 1. Hepatocellular carcinoma, two foci, 9 cm and 7 cm in greatest. dimension, moderately to poorly differentiated with vascular invasion,. margins negative; see comment. 2. Chronic hepatitis B (activity grade 1, fibrosis stage 2). ; see. comment. COMMENT: Liver Tumor, Including Intrahepatic Bile Duct, Synoptic Comment. - Tumor type: Hepatocellular carcinoma: mixed type with trabecular,. pleomorphic, and pseudoglandular areas. Histologic grade: Moderately to poorly differentiated. - Tumor size (maximum diameter of largest lesion) : 9 cm. - Tumor necrosis: <10%. - Multifocality (more than one tumor separated by nontumorous liver. parenchyma) : Present. - Estimated total tumor diameter of all HCC foci: 16 cm. - Vascular invasion: Present in small vessels (slide E5) . - Hepatic capsule: Tumor abuts capsule. - Local extension of tumor: Confined to liver. - Hepatic surgical margins: Negative; tumor is 0.9 cm from the surgical. resection margin. - The tumor is within 4 mm of the diaphragm and within 0.5 mm of the. site marked IVC sidewall. - Non-neoplastic liver: Hepatitis B. - Iron stain: Negative (performed and evaluated on block E10) . - Hepatocellular nodules (in cirrhotic liver) : None. - Lymph node status: Negative; total number of nodes examined: 3. - AJCC Stage: pT3aNO. To further characterize the background liver, immunohistochemical stains. for hepatitis B virus surface and core antigens were obtained on. sections of non-neoplastic liver (block E10) Hepatocytes showed. diffuse staining for HBV surface antigen and were negative for core. antigen, supporting a diagnosis of chronic Hepatitis B. Trichome stain was performed on block E10 and highlights the presence of. septal fibrosis with occasional bridging fibrosis without architectural. distortion, consistent with an overall fibrosis stage 2. Immunostain for vascular marker (ERG) was performed and evaluated on. block E5 and confirms the diagnosis of vascular invasion. has reviewed slides E5 and E7 (H&E and ERG stains) and. agrees with the diagnosis of vascular invasion. The immunoperoxidase stain (s) reported above were developed and their. performance characteristics determined by the. They have not been cleared or approved by the. U. S. Food and Drug Auministration. The FDA has determined that such. clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for. clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or. for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical. Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 ("CLIA") as qualified to. perform high-complexity clinical testing. Specimen (s) Received. A:left hepatic artery lymph node. B:cystic artery lymph node. C:gallbladder. D:portal caval lymph node. E:right hepatectomy with partial diaphragm. Clinical History. Relevant History: yo w/hx of HBV (recently started Tenofovir). who. complained of right groin pain. Workup included a CT scan. that. demonstrated a large liver mass. The case was discussed at. liver. tumor board with recommnedations to pursue surgical resection. The patient is a jear-old man with a history of hepatitis B virus. (recently started Tenofovir) and heavy alcohol use. CT scan on. showed a large liver mass. He is now undergoing resection. According. to. imaging found a bilobed, heterogeneously enhancing mass. centered in segment 7 of the liver. The mass is partially exophytic and. has contact with the right hemidiaphragm. There is mass effect on the. IVC and on the right hepatic vein. Gross Description. The case is received in five parts, labeled with the patient's name and. medical record number. Part A is received fresh and additionally labeled "left hepatic artery. LN, and consists of a single intact, ovoid lymph node (1.1 x 0.6 x 0.5. cm). The node is bisected to reveal a grossly unremarkable, solid,. tan-pink cut surface. The nodes is submitted in its entirety in. cassette A1. Part B is received fresh and additionally labeled "cystic artery LN, ". and consists of a single tan-brown, ovoid, intact lymph node (1.1 x 0.6. x 0.3 cm) with scant attached soft, yellow fibroadipose tissue. The. node is bivalved to reveal a grossly unremarkable, solid, tan-pink cut. surface. The node is submitted in its entirety in cassette B1. Part C. is received fresh and additionally labeled "gallbladder,". and consists of an intact gallbladder (5.5 cm in length, 2.1 cm in. diameter at fundus, 1.1 cm diameter a neck) The gallbladder is. bright-green and has a smooth and glistening serosal surface. The. adventitial surface is dull and ragged but intact. The cystic duct. margin measures 0.5 cm in outside diameter and is free of impacting. calculi. The gallbladder contains thin, green bile and is devoid of. stones. The gallbladder wall is. thin and pliable, of even thickness. (0.2 cm) and free of any areas of induration. The gallbladder mucosa is. green and velvety, free of any areas of ulceration or polyps. No cystic. duct lymph node is identified. Representative sections, including the. inked cystic duct margin, are submitted in cassette C1. Part D is received fresh and additionally labeled "portal caval LN," and. consists of a single intact, ovoid lymph node (1.6 x 0.8 x 0.1 cm) with. a scant amount of attached yellow, lobulated adipose tissue. The node. is sectioned to reveal a congested but otherwise grossly unremarkable,. tan-pink cut surface. The node is submitted in its entirety in cassette. D1. Part E is received fresh and additionally labeled "right hepatectomy. with partial diaphragm," and consists of a portion of liver (885 gm;. 13.5 cm from right to left x 11 cm from anterior to posterior x 18 cm. from superior to inferior). There is an exophytic mass on the superior. surface, which has been cut in to prior to recept by Pathology, and. harvested for banking by. The mass is soft, yellow-gold and. homogenous (7 x 6 x 6 cm), and is within 0.1 cm of the capsule and 0.7. cm from the surgical resection margin. There is a second lesion. adjacent to the first lesion, which is larger and appears to be a. distinct lesion, and is soft, yellow-gold and focally hemorrhagic (9 x. 6. x 6 cm) and is 1.4 cm from the surgical resection margin. There is a. vessel running between the two lesions, which does not appear to be. involved. There is an oval white-tan fragment of diaphragm on the. superior surface of the specimen. The tumor appears to be abutting, but. does not invade the diaphragm. The remainder of the hepatic parenchyma. is firm, red-brown and without nodules. ORIENTED BY. : Surgeon's sutures (black short stitch = sidewall of. vena cava, black long stitch = right hepatic vein) . INKING: - Surgical margin: Black. - Right hepatic vein: Yellow. - Sidewall vena cava: Green. - Diaphragm: Green. CASSETTES: Representative sections are submitted as follows: E1: Right hepatic vein margin. E2: Vessel between lesions. E3: Lesion #1, closest approach to capsule. E4: Lesion #1, closest approach to diaphragm. E5: Lesion #1, with adjacent normal parenchyma. E6: Lesion #2. E7: Lesion #2, with adjacent normal. E8: Lesion #2, closest approach to capsule. E9: Lesion #1. E10: Uninvolved hepatic parenchyma. E11: Lesion #1 with IVC sidewall. Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis. made by attending pathologist following review of all pathology slides. The attending pathologist has reviewed all dictations and preliminary. interpretations performed by any resident involved in the case and. performed all necessary edits before signing the final report. Pathology PDF Report. Show images for Surgical Pathology. (enter 1 per line): Specimen #1 LEFT HEPATIC. ARTERY LYMPH NODE for perm. Authorizing Provider Information. Result History. (enter 1 per line): Specimen #1 LEFT HEPATIC ARTERY LYMPH. NODE for perm. This is NOT a Requisition. Requisition hyperlink below. (enter 1 per line): Specimen #1 LEFT. HEPATIC ARTERY LYMPH NODE for perm. Authorizin. Pathology and Cytology. Departmel. Show images for Surgical Pathology. (enter 1 per line): Specimen #1 LEFT HEPATIC. ARTERY LYMPH NODE for perm. Release Date/Time. Start Date/Time. End Date/Time. Release Information. Released On. Released By. Frequency. Duration. Priority. Once. 1 occurrence. Routine. Unit Collect. Question. Answer. Comment. Specimen. (enter 1 per line). Specimen #1. LEFT HEPATIC. ARTERY LYMPH. NODE for perm. yo w/hx of HBV. (recently started. Tenofovir) who. complained of. right groin pain. Workup included a. CT scan. that. demonstrated a. large liver mass. The case was. discussed a. liver tumor board. with. recommnedations. to pursue surgical. resection. Lab Collection and Receipt Information. Collect Time. Collected By. Lab Receipt Date. Lab Receipt Time. Office. Pager/beeper E-mail. Authorizing Provider. Acknowledgement Info. For. At. Acknowledged By. Acknowledged On. Parent Status: Completed. (This order does not yet have any children). (enter 1 per line): Specimen #1 LEFT HEPATIC ARTERY LYMPH. NODE for pern.
