patient_filename: TCGA-G3-AAUZ.09055681-FB0F-4960-86A0-5D6EBD08FAED
text: CONFIDENTIAL. Demographics (for. verification purposes). Date of Birth: Sex: M. Site : Liver (22.0. Collected Date/Time. Received Date/Time. Specimen Description. A. Gallbladder @. B. Segment 4/5 liver @. c. Final margin @. Clinical Information. Hx. htc and hep B. Diagnosis. A. Gallbladder, Cholecystectomy: Negative for malignancy. B. Liver, Segment 4/5, Resection: Well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma, 4.4 x 2.7 x 2.3 cm. 0.1 cm to the blue inked specimen margin. Background liver show portal inflammation and steatosis (20%). c. Final Margin, Biopsy: Liver parenchyma, negative for hepatocellular carcinoma. Verified: Gross Description. Received are specimen containers A to C. All remisitions and specimen containers are. labelled with the patient's name,. The cassettes and. identifiers are. labelled with the Surgical Number. A. Specimen is received in formalin. The container is designated "gallbladder @. The specimen consists of a non-intact gallbladder measuring 6.8 x 2.3 x 1.2 cm. The. serosal surface appears smooth and unremarkable. The lumen contains green bile and no. calculi, and the cystic duct appears patent. The mucosa is granular, and the wall. averages 0.2 cm in thickness. The cystic duct lymph node is identified and measures 0.6. cm in greatest dimension. Representative sections of the gallbladder are submitted in. A1. The entire lymph node is bisected and submitted in A2. B. Specimen is received fresh and is submitted in formalin. The container is. designated. "segment 4/5 liver @. The specimen consists of an 81.3 g partial hepatectomy. specimen measuring 6.4 x 6.2 x 5.6 cm. The capsular surface appears smooth and. unremarkable. Roughened surgical resection margin is dyed with blue ink. The specimen. is serially sectioned to reveal a well circumscribed, ovoid mass which has lobular. features on cut surface. This mass measures 4.4 x 2.7 x 2.3 cm and grossly comes right. to the capsular surface, but does not grossly appear to invade the surface and to within. 0.1 cm of the blue inked surgical resection margin. No other lesions are grossly. identified. B1-B3. representative sections of the tumor and grossly closest point of invasion. to both capsular. surface and blue inked surgical resection margin. B4. further representative .section of the tumor. B5. representative section of normal liver adjacent to the liver. Specimen is received fresh and submitted in formalin. The container is designated. final margin. and consists of a single, soft, dark tan, triangular portion of. tissue measuring 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm. Surgical resection margin is grossly identified. which is dyed with blue ink. The specimen is serially sectioned and submitted in toto. in. one block. Pathologist Comment. Case seen in review by. Encounter Number. Patient Location.
