patient_filename: TCGA-ZP-A9D1.2FA60C52-0164-432D-BB08-A8638AAF2C2F
text: Results History. Entru Date and Time. Component. Specimen: A. Liver segment 4. Clinical Notes: Hepatocellular carcinoma. Cirrhosis. Specimen A: Fresh. tissue saved for. tissue bank. Diagnosis: A. Liver, segment 4, resection: - Multifocal moderately differentiated. hepatocellular carcinoma with background cirrhosis. AJCC Stage: pT1, NX, MX. - Please see Tumor Characteristics. IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY DISCLAIMER: This test was developed. and its performance characteristics determined by. It has not been cleared or. approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration The FDA. has determined that such clearance or approval is not. necessary. By placing the electronic signature on this. report, the pathologist certifies that all positive and. negative mmunohistochemistry controls were reviewed and. approved. (Electronically signed by). Verified: Tumor Characteristics: A: Liver, Resection (AJCC 7th Ed., 2010). SPECIMEN TYPE: Liver segment 4. TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 2.8 cm. Additional dimensions : 2.7 x 2.1. cm. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GII: Moderately differentiated. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) : pTl: Solitary tumor without vascular invasion. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) : pNX : Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed. DISTANT METASTASIS (pM) : Specify site (s), if known: pMX: Metastasis cannot be. assessed. MARGINS: Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 5. mm. LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION: Macroscopic Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion. Not identified. Microscopic (Small Vessel) Invasion. Not identified. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Cirrhosis/fibrosis. Gross: A. The specimen is labeled "liver segment 4." Received in. and placed in formalin is a 50 gram, 6.4 x 5.6 x. 3.5 cm, piece of liver. One surface is covered by a light. tan capsule. This surface has a raised nodular mass which. is located beneath the capsule and does not disrupt the. capsule. The roughened resection margins are inked black. The specimen is serially sectioned. The cut surface of the. liver parenchyma is composed of small white-yellow nodules. interspersed by white fibrous bands. The mass which was. identified at the capsular surface measures 2.8 x 2.7 x 2.1. cm. The mass is well-circumscribed and has a lobular, light. tan cut surface. This mass measures 0.5 cm from the nearest. black inked margin. Tissue was taken for. tissue. bank. Representative sections are submitted as follows: Cassette Designation: A1-2. Mass with closest margin. A3-5. Representative sections of mass. A6-7. Representative sections of liver. parenchyma. Microscopic: A histological examination has been performed. A. Sections show a liver parenchyma that exhibits areas of. regenerative nodules with background cirrhotic liver that. surround multiple nodules of well differentiated. hepatocellular carcinoma. The tumor cells are characterized. by occasional pseudoglandular architecture and trabecular. formations with prominent vasculature. The tumor cells are. variably vacuolated and contain flocculent clear cytoplasm. with mildly pleomorphic ovoid nuclei and prominent nucleoli. Occasional fibrous bands are admixed with the tumor cell. infiltrate. A special stain for trichrome highlights the background. cirrhosis. A reticulin stain demonstrates hepatic cells. with increased thickening of cell layers. An. immunohistochemical stain for glypican-3 demonstrates. cytoplasmic positivity in the tumor cell population. The. controls are stained appropriately. Administrative Notes: CPT: No charge codes are associated with this case. Entrv Date and Time. Entered bv. In process.
