patient_filename: TCGA-BC-A3KG.67A81454-06A8-451D-B855-F9D146CC0348
text: Diagnosis: A: Liver, segment 5, partial hepatic resection. Histologic tumor type/subtype: Hepatocellular carcinoma. Histologic grade: Grade 2 of 4 (Edmondson and Steiner). Tumor location: Segment V. Tumor size: 3.6 cm. Focality/extent Unifocal. Tumor necrosis/treatment effect : Tumor appears > 95% viable. Vascular invasion: Not identified. Perineural invasion: Not identified. Capsular invasion: Not identified; tumor is 0.1 cm from capsular. surface. Margins : Negative for malignancy; tumor is 0.5 cm from the. segment IV. margin and 1.3 cm from the segment VI margin. Lymph nodes: None sampled. Background liver: Mild centrilobular cholestasis. AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT1 pNX. NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information. available at the. time of this report, and is subject to change pending clinical. review and. additional information. B: Liver, segment 4, partial hepatic resection. - Negative for malignancy. - Liver parenchyma with mild centrilobular cholestasis. C: Gallbladder, cholecystectomy. - Negative for malignancy. - Gallbladder with no significant pathologic abnormality. Clinical History: -year-old female with hepatocellular carcinoma. Gross Description: Received are three appropriately labeled containers. Container A is additionally labeled "segment 5 liver resection". and consists of. a 55 gram (6.8 X 5.3 X 4.2 cm) wedge of liver that has a short. stitch at the. segment 6 margin (inked blue) and a long stitch at the segment 4. margin (inked. red) per container. There is a 3.6 X 3.2 X 3.2 cm well-. circumscribed but. focally lobulated soft pink/tan mass that is 1.2 cm to the. segment 6 margin, 0.5. cm to the segment 4 margin, and grossly bulges the capsule but. does not extend. through it. The capsule is smooth and glistening and the. remainder of the. parenchyma is red/brown and unremarkable. Tumor and normal. tissue are given to. tumor procurement. Block Summary: A1-A2 - Perpendicular sections of mass closest to the segment 6. margin. A3-A4 - Perpendicular sections of mass closest to the segment 4. margin. A5 - Mass abutting the capsule. Container B is additionally labeled "segment 4 final margin,. stitch final. margin" and consists of a 1.5 gram (2.5 X 2.1 X 0.6 cm) segment. of liver that. has a suture on one side indicating final margin, per container. The opposite. side of the suture is partially cauterized. The final margin is. inked blue. The. cut surface is unremarkable. Serially sectioned and submitted in. B1-B3,. Container C is additionally labeled "gallbladder" and consists. of a 7.5 X 2.7 X. 1.6 4 cm intact gallbladder. The serosa is green/gray, smooth and. glistening. The. wall is 0.2 cm thick and the lumen is partially filled with a. viscous red/brown. fluid. The mucosa is red/brown and velvety. Sections of. gallbladder and cystic. duct margin, en face in C1.
