patient_filename: TCGA-FV-A3R3.FF0E1601-BC87-4E61-95BE-1776C9F85002
text: Il. MRN #: Ref Phy. SPECIMEN INFO. DIAGNOSIS. DIAGNOSIS: Liver, partial hepatectomy: Tumor Characteristics: 1. Histologic type: Hepatocellular carcinoma. 2. Histologic grade: Grade II (of III). 3. Tumor site: Right lobe of liver (involving regions 4 and 5). 4. Tumor size: 18.0 cm in greatest dimension. 5. Tumor focality: Unifocal. 6. Extent of invasion: Tumor confined to liver. 7. Lymphovascular space invasion: Not identified. Surgical Margin Status: 1. Parenchymal margin: Negative. Other: 1. pTNM stage: pT1 NX. COMMENTS: There is a hepatocellular neoplasm with prominent atypia involving the partial resection of liver. The neoplasm is positive for keratin CAM5.2 and Hepar. There is a focus positive for CK7. CK20 is negative. Reticulin stain show disruption of the reticulin fibers which are located predomiantly in fibrovascular. areas. The liver parenchyma in the non-tumor areas shows normal staining pattern with reticulin. There is no increase in staining with iron or trichrome. The neoplasm is a hepatocellular carcinoma. It does not have features of fibrolamellar type. This case has been reviewed by D. who are in agreement with the diagnosis. CEINICAL INFORMATION. CLINICAL HISTORY: Preoperative Diagnosis: Right upper quadrant mass below liver. Postoperative Diagnosis: Symptoms/Radiologic Findings: SPECIMENS: Liver mass. SPECIMEN DATA. GROSS DESCRIPTION: Specimen is received fresh labeled with the patient's name. and consists of a 1.5 kilogram, 20.0 x 16.0 x 11.5 cm portion of liver. received with attached gallbladder. The gallbladder is 11.5 x 6.5 x 3.0 cm. The serosa is purple-gray and glistening. On opening, the lumen contains. dark green viscid bile along with multiple yellow-tan multifaceted choleliths aggregating to 7.5 x 3.0 x 1.5 cm. Some are present near the cystic duct. The. liver is partially surfaced by pink-tan smooth and glistening to focally shaggy capsule. Exposed parenchyma is identified at the margin. This margin is. inked,. the. specimen. is serially sectioned to reveal an 18.0 x 12.0 x 9.5 cm encapsulated, nodular mass that abuts the liver capsule and approaches to. within 1.5 cm of the inked parenchymal margin. This mass features a yellow-tan friable, focally hemorrhagic cut surface with areas of yellow-green. discoloration. This mass is present at the gallbladder bed however invasion into the gallbladder is not present. Normal appearing pink-tan liver. parenchyma is present near the margin. Additional masses are not identified. Representative sections are submitted for frozen section with the residual. entirely resubmitted for permanent section in cassettes 1 and 2 labeled. designated as follows: 1--tissue previously designated FSA1. (region 4B); 2--tissue previously designated FSA2 (region 5). Additional represe e sections are submitted in cassettes 3-12 designated as follows: 3-cystic duct margin; 4 and 5--mass to gallbladder; 6-additional parenchymal margin, perpendicular; 7-mass to normal hepatic parenchyn "nd. liver. capsule; 8 and 9-additional mass to liver capsule; 10-12--additional mass. Additionally, a yellow green and blue cassette are submitted for L. research each labeled. INTRA-OPERATIVE CONSULTATION: FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSES: FSA1 and A2: Hepatocellular neoplasm: tumor not identified on inked margin in representative sections per Dr.
