patient_filename: TCGA-BC-A216.28CDABB8-3172-4676-8F4A-8B91F2B8D85F
text: Diagnosis: A: Liver, right lobe, extended right hepatic lobectomy. - Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated, with. subset coagulative. necrosis (20%). - Multifocal, largest nodule 7.5 cm diameter. - Invasive carcinoma involves capsule and margin at focus of. superior gross. capsular disruption (block A9). - Vascular invasion - not identified. - Surgical margins - Focally positive at superior gross capsular. disruption. (block A9), other margins negative (see Light Microscopy). - Non-neoplastic parenchyma - mild portal chronic inflammation,. without. significant fibrosis. - AJCC staging: pT3 pNx pMx. B: Liver, segment 2 margin, excision. - Hepatic parenchyma, no carcinoma identified. C: Liver, segment 3 margin, excision. - Hepatic parenchyma, no carcinoma identified. D: Diaphragm, NOS, excision. - Fibrous tissue and skeletal muscle with granulation tissue and. chronic. inflammation. - No carcinoma identified. E: Gallbladder, cholecystectomy. No specific histologic abnormality. - No carcinoma identified. Clinical History: -year-olo female with HCC in the right liver. Liver tumor. Interval increase. in size of the solitary large right hepatic lobe mass concerning. for. hepatocellular carcinoma with involvement of the right portal. vein. Gross Description: Received are five appropriately labeled containers. Container A is additionally labeled "extended right lobectomy". and is a 3,190. gram, 29 X 22 X 10 cm lobe of liver, red/tan, focally. erythematous and adhesed. capsular surface. The capsule is intact with the exception of. three foci of. disruption (2 superior, 1 inferior) that have been inked yellow. The parenchymal. margin is inked blue in addition to an adjacent portion of this. specimen,. containing an embedded staple line that is remarkable for tumor. encapsulated. within thin membranous tissue (true margin ?). Serial sectioning. demonstrates a. 21 X 16.5 x 10.5 cm well-circumscribed necrotic white/yellow. mass with diffuse. hemorrhage and a central 7.5 x 7 X 5.5 cm stellate, firm fibrous. component. The. mass grossly abuts, but is confined by the capsular surface and. at closest. approach, is 0.3 cm from the parenchymal margin. The uninvolved. parenchyma is. yellow/tan with a nutmeg appearance and is remarkable for a 3 X. 2 X 1.5 cm focus. of clustered white/pink, well-circumscribed satellite lesions. The cluster is. located 4.0 cm from the larger mass, 1.0 cm from the parenchymal. margin, and 0.2. cm from the overlying capsule. Block Summary. A1 - Mass with respect to parenchymal margin. A2 - Mass with respect to capsule. A3 - Representative from questionable margin. A4 - Representative fibrous area of mass. A5 - Mass with respect to normal uninvolved. A6-A7 - - Representative central sections of mass. A8 - Representative cluster of lesions. A9 - Representative capsular disruption (one of the two superior. disruptions). A10 - Representative normal uninvolved. A portion of tumor and normal tissue were sent for tissue. Container B is additionally labeled "segment 2 margin, stitch. marks margin", and. is a 3.5 X 1.5 x 0.7 cm fragment of tan/red soft tissue. containing a suture on. one of its surfaces indicated as the final margin per the. requisition (inked. blue) . The opposing cut surface is inked black and the specimen. is serially. sectioned to reveal a grossly unremarkable tan/pink cut surface. with no discrete. masses or lesions. The specimen is submitted entirely in blocks. B1 and B2. Container C is additionally labeled "segment 3 margin, stitch. marks final. margin", and consists of two fragments of pink/tan soft tissue. containing a. suture on one of their surfaces indicated as the final margin. per the. requisition. The first fragment is 6.2 x 2.7 x 0.3 cm in. dimension. The final. margin is inked blue and the opposing cut surface is inked. black. The second. fragment is 5.9 x 2.6 x 0.4 cm in dimension, The final margin is. inked blue and. the opposing cut surface is inked green. Both fragments are. serially sectioned. to reveal a grossly unremarkable tan/red cut surface with no. identifiable masses. or lesions. The first fragment is submitted entirely in block. C1-C3 and the. second fragment is submitted entirely in block C4-C7. Container D is additionally labeled "diaphragm" and is a 2 x 2. 0.6 cm aggregate. of two fragments of red/pink soft tissue. The fragments are. sectioned to reveal. a grossly unremarkable cut surface and are submitted entirely in. blocks D1 and. D2, respectively. Specimen E: Previously opened: No. Measurements: 8.5 x 3.3 X 1.3 cm. External surface: Pink/tan, smooth and glistening with focal. erythema. and gray/green discoloration within the body. Wall thickness: 0.2 cm. Mucosa: Pink/tan and velvety with diffuse yellow/gold stippling. Stones present: No. Other comments: The lumen is filled with a viscous red/orange. fluid. Block #: E1. Light Microscopy: Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr. Hepatocellular carcinoma is present, with trabecular. architecture, plate. expansion, nuclear pleomorphism, and variable nucleolar. prominence. Rare. mitotic figures and apoptotic nuclei are present. Background. liver does not. appear cirrhotic. We do not know whether the superior capsular. disruption. sampled in block A9 is superseded by the separately submitted. diaphragm in D. Resident Physician. Attending Pathologist: MD PHD. I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above. specimens and have. rendered the above diagnosis (es) .
