patient_filename: TCGA-G3-A5SL.7DB1AFB2-69C9-4277-904E-4CF9CBAE8360
text: Note: If you do not see "END OF PRINTED REPORT" at the bottom of the. the report YOU DO NOT HAVE THE ENTIRE REPORT try. Please printir. CONFIDENTIAL. Relevant. Information. Demographics. Date OT birth: (for verification. purposes). Sex: M. Collected Date/Time. Received Date/Time. Specimen Description. A: Gallbladder. B: Right lobe of liver. Clinical Information. Alcoholic liver tumor. Infectious patient:No. Immunocompromised: No. History of neoplasm: yes. Diagnosis. A: Gallbladder: within Normal Limits. B: Right lobe of liver: Moderately Differentiated Hepatocellular Carcinoma (5.5 cm). With Lymphvascular Invasion. Tumor 0.15 cm away from inked margin. Nonneoplastic granulomas. Sarcoid like reactions may be seen in response tumor. liver contains numerous noncaseating sarcoid like to. No definite histologic features present to suggest chronic alconol related. disease. Verified. Gross Description. Received are specimers A and u. nil requisitions and specimen containers are labelled with. the patient's name,. The cassettes and AP identifiers are labelled with. the Surgical Number. A: The specimen consists of an intact gallbladder which measures 9.5 x 5 x 3 cm. Cystic. duct lymph node is not identified with the specimen. Approximately 30 CC of bile are. present within the gallbladder. No gallstones are identified. No masses or polyps are. noted on the mucosal surface. A few yellowish flecks are noted on the mucosal surface. The gallbladder wall measures 0.2 cm in maximum dimension. The gallbladder is grossly. within normal limits. Representative sections of the cystic duct, body, and fundus are. submitted in A1. a specimen consists of a lobe of liver which weighs 671 g and measures 23 x 14 x 9. Surgical resection margin has been painted with blue ink. Within the liver, there. circumscribed greenish tinged nodule which measures 5.5 cm in maximum dimension. to wit? in 1 mm of the inked surgical margin, but does not appear to touch the inked. n. No ther masses or nodules are noted within the liver. The surrounding liver. enchyma. slightly yellow and looks like it might have some areas of possible. congesti. No other abnormalities are noted. Section submitted for tumor bank and. represen. ve sections taken as follows: C'. of non neoplastic liver. of liver tumor and nearest margin. oner representative sections of tumor and adjacent normal liver. Num. Pa. 1. - END OF PRINTED REPORT -.
