patient_filename: TCGA-G3-A7M7.9EC72408-F4C7-4D95-ACE3-3BF44E10FF8C
text: CONFIDENTIAL. Demographics (for. verification purposes). Date of Birth. Collected Date/Time. Received Date/Time. Specimen Description. A. Gallbladder. B. Liver segment 5-8. Clinical Information. Hepatocellular carcinoma. Positive margin ablated. Infectious patient: No. Immunocompromised: No. History of neoplasm: No. Diagnosis. A. Gallbladder, Resection: No malignancy. B. Liver, Partial Hepatectomy: Hepatocellular carcinoma (see synoptic report). Chronic hepatitis with severe steatosis (60%) consistent with. alcoholic hepatitis, fibrosis stage III. Verified: Responsible Resident. Synoptic Report. Specimen: Liver. PROCEDURE: Partial hepatectomy. TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 3.7 cm. Additional dimensions : 3.5 cm x 3.1 cm. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GI: Well differentiated. TUMOR EXTENSION (select all that apply) : Tumor confined to liver. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) : pTl: Solitary tumor with no vascular invasion. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) : pNX: Cannot be assessed. DISTANT METASTASIS (pM): pMX: Cannot be assessed. MARGINS. Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 0.1 min. Bile duct margin cannot be assessed. Other margin cannot be assessed. VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V) : Absent. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Hepatitis (specify type) : Alcoholic hepatitis. Gross Description. Received are specimen containers A to B. All requisitions and specimen containers are. labelled with the patient's name,. The cassettes and. are. labelled with the Surgical Number. A. Specimen is received fresh and designated "gallbladder". The specimen consists of. an. intact gallbladder weighing 71.3 g and measuring 10. 6 x 4.5 x 3.3 cm. The serosa is. smooth and there is attached adipose tissue. The lumen contains semiliquid, green, mucus. material. No stones are identified. The gallbladder wall measures 0.1 cm in thickness. and is unremarkable. The mucosal surface is unremarkable. The cystic duct is patent. No lymph nodes are identified. Representative sections are submitted in cassette A1. B. Specimen is received fresh and designated "liver segment". The specimen consists. of. a segment of liver tissue measuring 8.5 x 8.5 x 4.5 cm and weighing 128. 4 g in the fixed. state. The resection margin is painted blue. The capsule is smooth but appears to be. congested with focal yellow, round discoloration. Adjacent to the resection, there is a. yellow, firm nodule measuring 3.7 x 3.5 x 3.1 cm. The tumor is 0.4 cm to the closest. capsule. The remaining liver parenchyma appears fatty. Representative sections are. submitted as follows: B1 through B4 - tumor with closest resection margin. B5 - tumor with closest capsule. B6 - liver parenchyma adjacent to the tumor. Encounter Number. I. Patient Location.
