patient_filename: TCGA-ZH-A8Y2.1D1D2814-ECEE-463D-9EF9-E27F9CDCFEB6
text: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REVISED REPORT. Diagnosis. A: Liver, segment 8, final margin, excision. - Liver tissue with hemorrhage and mild steatosis (see comment). - No tumor identified. B: Liver, segments 2, 3, 4, and part of 8, partial hepatectomy. Histologic tumor type/subtype: Cholangiocarcinoma, mass forming. subtype (see comment). Histologic grade: Grade 2 of 4 (moderately differentiated. Tumor location: Segments 2, 3, 4, and 8. Tumor size: 11.9 cm. Focality/extent Unifocal. Tumor necrosis/treatment effect: Focal tumor necrosis present. (no more than 15% of sampled tumor). Vascular invasion: Focally suspicious for lymphovascular. invasion, no large vessel invasion identified. Perineural invasion: Not identified. Capsular invasion: Not identified. Margins: Vascular, bile duct, and parenchymal margins negative. (0. 1 cm from parenchymal margin, including site designated as. caval margin) i cauterized bile duct margin free of dysplasia. Lymph nodes: None identified. Background liver: Mild steatosis and minimal non-specific portal. chronic inflammation. AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT1 pNx. NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information. available at the time of this report, and is subject to change. pending clinical review and additional information. C: Gallbladder, cholecystectomy. - Chronic cholecystitis. - No dysplasia or carcinoma identified. Comment: H & E stained sections show a relatively well circumscribed. gland forming neoplasm with moderate nuclear pleomorphism and. focal tumor necrosis. A mucicarmine stain and immunostains are. performed on block B5. The mucicarmine stain is negative. The. malignant cells are positive for Cam 5.2, CK7 (focal),. CD5, CEA (focal, cytoplasmic), and CD56 (focal) , and negative. for CK20, HepPar1, chromogranin, and synaptophysin. In the. appropriate clinical setting, these findings are consistent with. intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. The preliminary results were. reported to Dr. by text message on. Representative H & E stained sections, the mucin stain, and the. immunostains were also reviewed by Dr. , who agrees with the. interpretation. Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis: A frozen section was requested by Dr. in OR. FSA1: Liver, segment 8, final margin. - Benign liver with mild inflammation of portal tracts and. steatosis, no tumor seen. Drs. at. on. Clinical History: -year-old female with a liver mass. Gross Description: Specimen A was received fresh for frozen section labeled. "segment 8 final margin" and consists of a 3.8 X 2.5 X 0.4 cm. fragment of red/brown tissue. A stitch marks the final margin. The final margin is inked blue and the remainder is inked black. The cut surface is smooth, tan/brown, and unremarkable. A full. thickness section was frozen as FSA1 and the remainder is. submitted in A1-A4,. Specimen B is labeled "liver segment 2, 3, 4, and part of 8" and. consists of a 650 gram, 16.5 X 15.5 x7. 4 cm partial hepatectomy. specimen that has a short suture indicated as segment 8 (per. requisition) . The parenchymal margin is inked black and the. caval margin is inked red. There is an 11.9 X 9.3 X 5.8 cm. lobulated firm smooth pink/tan mass with patchy areas of soft. yellow discoloration occupying approximately 15% of the mass. This mass is 0.1 cm from the caval margin, grossly abuts the. vessels at the vascular margin, is 0.5 cm from the parenchymal. margin, and focally retracts the capsule but does not extend. through it. The mass occupies approximately 75% of the. parenchyma with the regional vasculature uninvolved by mass. The. vasculature has a smooth and glistening gray/white inner lining. The remainder of the parenchyma is tan/brown and unremarkable. The capsule is intact, purple/gray and smooth with a 6.3 X 5.7. X 0.2 cm piece of adherent fibrofatty tissue (inked blue) . The. mass is 0.1 cm from the fibrofatty tissue. A portion of tumor. was given to tissue procurement. Block Summary. B1 - Perpendicular of mass with vascular margin. B2 - Perpendicular mass with caval margin. B3 - Perpendicular of mass closest to the parenchymal margin. (segment 8 margin). B4 - Mass with overlying adherent fibrofatty tissue. B5 - Mass with capsule. B6 - Mass with regional vasculature. B7 - Yellow discoloration of mass. B8 - Uninvolved parenchyma away from mass. Additional sections following initial microscopic examination: B9 - Perpendicular of mass closest to caval margin. B10-B12 - Perpendicular of mass closest to parenchymal margin. B13 - Bile duct margin, en face. B14-B15 - - Additional duct/vascular margin, en face (along the. parenchymal margin). Specimen C is labeled "gallbladder" and consists of a 9.6 cm. long X 2.8 cm in diameter intact gallbladder. The serosa is. purple/red, smooth and glistening and focally stained green at. the body fundus interface. The wall is 0.2 cm thick and the. lumen is filled with green/brown viscous fluid. The mucosa is. pink/tan and velvety. Calculi are absent. The cystic duct. margins and sections of gallbladder from neck and body in C1. Addendum. To add the results of additional sampling of the tumor in. specimen B. Addendum Comment. At the request of Dr. , additional sections of the tumor are. submitted for microscopic examination to evaluate for a possible. hepatocellular carcinoma component (blocks B16-B23) . The. additional sections show tumor morphology comparable to that. seen in the original sections. There are occasional more solid. appearing areas. A HepPar1 immunostain is performed on one of. these areas in block B21 and is negative. There is no definitive morphologic or immunophenotypio evidence. of a hepatocellular carcinoma component to this tumor. The. histologic grade and percentage of necrosis remain unchanged. There is no definitive lymphovascular invasion identified in the. additional sections.
