patient_filename: TCGA-DD-A73C.FE051CD7-9C34-4A45-934C-DD8BB00C717A
text: Female. DIAGNOSIS: A. Liver, segments II and III, partial hepatectomy: Hepatocellular. carcinoma, well differentiated (grade 1 of 4), forming a dominant,. 14.5 x 10.5 x 10.0 cm mass with multiple satellite masses (see parts. C, E, F) . The tumor is confined to the liver. The resection margin. is negative for tumor (tumor free margin, 0.5 cm) Macroscopic. large vessel (venous) invasion is absent. Microscopic (small. vessel) invasion is absent. No regional lymph nodes are identified. The surrounding non-neoplastic hepatic parenchyma shows no. significant diagnostic abnormality (see comment). Pathologic staging based on available surgical pathology material. (AJCC 7th edition) : pT3a. Comment: The sections of the large mass present in segments II and. III (part A) demonstrate a well differentiated neoplasm with bland. cytology that shows loss of the normal reticulin network and. dispersion of the neoplastic cells by an intercellular material. suggestive of mucin. The reticulin network is preserved in the. surrounding liver parenchyma. A glypican 3 stain is negative in the. neoplastic cells and is noncontributory. The separately submitted. wedge resections from segment VI, segment VIII, and segment IVB show. smaller nodules with similar histologic features. No defined lesion. is identified in the liver segment VII. The overall features including loss of the reticulin network and the. multifocality suggest, although the cytologic features are bland and. well differentiated, that this represents a well differentiated. hepatocellular carcinoma. Case seen with. Additional reticulin stains will be performed on parts C and E as. well as a mucicarmine stain performed on part A. These stains will. be reported in an addendum, when available. B. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy: Mild chronic cholecystitis. C. Liver, segment VI, resection: Well differentiated. hepatocellular carcinoma, forming a 1.2 x 1.: x 0.8 cm nodule, 0.9. cm from the surgical resection margin. D. Liver, segment VII, resection: Hepatic tissue with cautery. effect. No definitive lesion is identified. E. Liver, segment VIII, resection: Well differentiated. hepatocellular carcinoma, forming a 1.0 x 1.0 x 0.9 cm nodule, 0.1. cm from the surgical resection margin. F. Liver, segment IVB, resection: Well differentiated. hepatocellular carcinoma, forming a 1.1 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm nodule,. abutting the inked surgical resection margin. Interpreted by: ADDENDUM: Reticulin stains are performed on two of the satellite nodules. (blocks C1 and E1) The stains show convincing loss of the. reticulin framework in both nodules, adding further support for the. diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma with multiple satellite. nodules. Given the mucinous character of the cut tumor surface, a mucicarmine. stain is performed on a representative tumor block (A2) . There is. a. faint pink blush in the dilated sinusoids, but no intracellular. mucin is identified. Some hepatocellular carcinomas can overexpress. mucin-related proteins (particularly MUC1) i that could possibly. account for both the gross and histochemical findings.
