patient_filename: TCGA-GJ-A6C0.D9F106D7-C163-46C5-8DDC-FF60ED1CF17B
text: Clinical Information: year old female presented with liver mass, work-up showed hepatocellular. carcinoma. Operative Procedure: Right hepatectomy, chole. Pre-Operative Diagnosis: Hepatocellular carcinoma. A: Gallbladder. B: Right liver. C: Right colon and distal ileum. D: Small bowel. Final Pathologic Diagnosis: A. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy: Cholelithiasis with prominent Rokitansky-Aschoff sinuses. B. Liver, right, hepatectomy: Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated, see note A. Negative for cirrhosis. Scattered PAS positive intracellular globules in non-neoplastic. hepatocytes, see note B. Specimen: Liver and gallbladder. Procedure: Partial hepatectomy. Tumor histologic type: Hepatocellular carcinoma. Tumor size: 14.2 X 9.5 x 16.5 cm. Tumor focality: Right. Number of tumors: One. Histologic type: Hepatocellular carcinoma. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Tumor extension: Tumor confined to liver (close [1mm]) from. capsular surface but no penetration identified). Margins: Parenchymal: Uninvolved. If uninvolved, distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 10. mm from the inked parenchymal. margin (intraoperative gross diagnosis confirmed). Lymph-vascular invasion: Macroscopic venous (large vessel) invasion: Not identified. Microscopic (small vessel) invasion: Present. Pathologic staging: (pTMN). TNM descriptors: None. Primary tumor: pT2. Regional lymph nodes: Not applicable. Distant metastasis: Not applicable. C. Right colon and distal ileum, resection: Ulceration with perforation. Acute peritonitis. Fibrous adhesions. D. Small bowel, resection: Fibrous adhesions with acute peritonitis. The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were. Note: The presence of PAS positive globules in hepatic cells could indicate the. patient is a carrier of an alpha-1-antitrypsin gene mutation. Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis: FSB: Right liver (gross portion only): 1 cm from inked margin. TAT: 5 mins. Gross Description: The specimen is received in four parts, each labeled with the patient name. Specimen A is received in a formalin filled container, and is additionally. labeled, "gallbladder." The specimen is grossly consistent with a gallbladder. with dimensions of 8.5 x 3.3 x 2.4 cm. The serosal surface has brachial. hemorrhage and there is some adherent clotted blood. Opening the specimen. reveals it to be filled with multifaceted stones and dark green viscid bile. The. wall of the gallbladder is edematous but the mucosa has a uniform thickness of. 0.2 cm. Representative sections through the wall and the cystic duct margin are. included in a single cassette A. The specimen is consistent with a partial hepatectomy that has dimensions of. 16.7 X 16.5 x 10.2 cm. The serosal surface is heterogeneously dark brown and. light tan. A whitish mass could be seen protruding from the parenchyma abutting. the capsule. The surgical margin is inked black. The specimen is bread loafed to. reveal a large nodular white mass which has dimensions of 14.2 x 9.5 X 16.5 cm. The masshas both cystic and solid areas. The cystic areas appear to be. hemorrhagic. At its closest point the mass comes to within 1.5 cm of the inked. margin and abuts the capsule. There are no designated vessels or ducts. Representative sections are submitted as follows: B1,2. mass to inked margin;. B3,4. mass to capsule;. B5,6. uninvolved parenchyma. B7-9. interface sections. The specimen is grossly consistent with a segment of bowel that has a large. bowel with a small segment of small bowel attached. The large bowel has a length. of 19 cm and a diameter that ranges from 1.5 cm to 5.5 cm. The attached small. bowel has a length of 6.5 cm and a diameter that ranges from 3 cm to 1.5 cm. There is a defect in the large bowel which is leaking fecal material. This. defect has a diameter of 1.2 cm and is located 9.8 cm from the proximal margin. There is a moderate amount of attached to the serosal surface that has. dimensions of 24 x 11.5 x 3.5 cm. The fat and serosa are erythematous with. adherent fibrinopurulent adhesions. Representative sections are submitted as. follows: C1. proximal margin;. C2. distal margin;. C3. defect;. C4. ileocecal valve. The mesenteric fat is searched for lymph nodes. Multiple potential ones are. found. Representative sections are as follows: C5,6 potential whole lymph nodes. The fat is submitted in cassettes C5 and 6. Specimen D is received in a formalin filled container additionally labeled,. "small bowel.' The specimen is consistent with a segment of small bowel that is. 3.5 cm in length with an average diameter that ranges from 1.3 to 1.8 cm. Both. ends are stapled shut. There is a suture on the specimen near a possible defect. Representative sections are submitted as follows: D1. representative sections from each stapled margin;. D2-3. through defect. Microscopic Description: The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination. findings. Gender: F.
