patient_filename: TCGA-BC-A10U.57EB75F3-6F48-4CFB-86CF-F694C390C86A
text: Diagnosis: A: Liver, biopsy. - Hepatocellular carcinoma. B: Liver, right lobe, removal. - Moderately differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma, surgical margin involved. - Moderate steatosis with slight portal inflammation in liver surrounding the tumor, consistent with reaction. to tumor. C: Gallbladder, removal. - No significant pathologic abnormality. Comment: The frozen section diagnosis and intraoperative consultation diagnosis are confirmed. There is extensive. lymphovascular space involvement. Intraoperative Consultation: A frozen section is requested in OR. by Dr. FSA1: Liver, needle biopsy. - Hepatocellular neoplasm favor hepatocellular carcinoma, defer final to permanence and evaluation with. prior biopsy; differential diagnosis includes hepatic adenoma. IOCB: Liver, partial resection. - Tumor grossly extends to inked margin. Clinical History: The patient with a liver lesion. Gross Description: Received are three appropriately labeled containers. Container A is additionally labeled "liver bx". The specimen consists of two gray cassette labeled "FSA1. and A1". Per frozen section team the specimen measures 1.5 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm with an aggregate yellow and. red, thin cylindrical tissue fragments and submitted in blocks FSA1 and A1. Container B it holds a single lobe of liver measuring 28 x 18 x 8 cm which has been inked and serially. sectioned. The capsule is intact and appears normal. There is a cauterized appearing edge which has been. inked. Examining the parenchyma reveals a 9 x 7 x 6.2 cm yellow-tan mass with areas of apparent. hemorrhage. This mass extends to the inked surface grossly and comes to close major vessels. It has a. discrete border with the normal tissue but no apparent capsule. The remainder of the parenchyma is. red-tan and relatively normal in appearance. Representative sections of tumor are submitted in block B1. B7. Representative section of normal parenchyma in block B8. Container C is additionally labeled "gallbladder". It holds a large gallbladder measuring 12.5???? x 4.5 x. 4.5 cm. It contains slightly viscus green bile. The wall measures 0.3 cm greatest dimension, is slightly. thickened near the neck. Sections of antrum and body are submitted in block C1 and the neck in block C2. Light Microscopy: Light microscopic examination is performed. The sections shows a moderately differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma which involves the surgical. margin of excision. The trichrome, reticulin, PAS-digest, and iron stains are non-contributory. I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have rendered the above. diagnosis(es).
