patient_filename: TCGA-BC-A69I.94F0B317-494A-4467-94A2-5004010E133F
text: Diagnosis : A: Gallbladder, cholecystectomy. - Cholelithiasis. B: Lymph nodes, portal, regional resection. - Two lymph nodes with lipid lymphadenopathy, negative for. malignancy (0/2). C: Liver, Segment 4-8, partial hepatectomy. Number of tumors: 1. Tumor #1: Tumor size: 7.0 cm. Tumor location: Segment 4-8. Histologic tumor type/subtype: hepatocellular carcinoma. Histologic grade: Well differentiated. Tumor necrosis/treatment effect: None. Worst tumor differentiation: Well differentiated. Vascular invasion: None. Perineural invasion: Absent. Capsular invasion: Absent. Margins : negative; 0.5 cm to the black inked parenchymal margin,. negative en face left portal vein margin (stitches). Lymph nodes (including lymph nodes from specimen B) : two lymph. nodes, negative for malignancy (0/2). Satellite lesions: No. Background liver: steatohepatitis, grade 2, stage 1-2 (Brunt. classification. Other extrahepatic spread: No. Additional findings: - Biopsy site changes. AJCC Pathologic TNM stage: pT1 pNO. NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information. available at the time of this report, and is subject to change. pending clinical review and additional information. D: Soft tissue, omental deposit, excision. - Fibroadipose tissue with fibrosis, dystrophic calcifications,. and granulation tissue. - No malignancy identified. Comment: A reticulin stain confirms the presence of hepatocellular. carcinoma. Background liver shows macrovesicular steatosis involving. approximately 30-40% of the hepatic parenchyma. Ballooned. hepatocytes containing Mallory' S hyaline are readily. identified, and moderate numbers of inflammatory cells, mainly. neutrophils, are clustered around and within lobular. hepatocytes. A trichrome stain shows patchy pericellular and. periportal fibrosis. The findings are consistent with. steatohepatitis. The presence of Mallory' S hyaline and. neutrophil-predominan - lobular inflammation raises suspicion for. alcoholic steatohepatitis. Clinical correlation is recommended. Clinical History: year-old male with biopsy proven HCC. "Please also comment on the health of normal liver away from the. tumor, ?cirrhosis.". Gross Description: Received are four ormalin-filled - containers. Container A is additionally labeled "gallbladder. It holds a. 6.2 X 3.0 X 1.2 cm gallbladder. The serosal surface is tan/green. and smooth. The gallbladder is received disrupted along the. neck. There are three black granular stones within the lumen,. 1.5 X 0.6 X 0.2 cm in aggregate. The mucosa is green and velvety. and the wall is 0.2 cm thick. Block summary: A1 - cystic duct margin and representative sections. Tissue remains in formalin. Container B is additionally labeled "portal node." It holds a. 5.0 X 4. 1 X 1.1 cm fragment of yellow fatty tissue. Within the. tissue there are multiple lymph nodes palpated, the largest is. 1.8 cm. Block summary: B1 - one lymph node, bisected. B2-B3 - one lymph node, trisected. B4-B5 - non-palpable lymph node. A small amount of tissue remains in formalin. Container C is additionally labeled "liver, Segments 4-8",. requisition states "stitch marks left portal vein. " It holds a. 350 gram, 15.0 X 11.2 X 5.2 cm partial hepatectomy specimen. The. specimen is received with two stitches embedded within the. surgical margin, roughly 2 cm from each other, and marking. the left portal vein per the requisition. The tissue surrounding. the stitches are inked red and the remainder of the surgical. margin is inked black. The capsular surface is notable for an. area of bulging that is 7.5 X 4.5 cm. Beneath this area within. the parenchyma there is a green nodular, well circumscribed. firm mass roughly 7.0 X 5.5 X 5.3 cm. There are multiple areas. of hemorrhage within the mass. The mass comes to within 0.5 cm. of the black inked surgical margin. No additional abnormalities. are noted. The remainder of the capsule is dark red to brown,. smooth and the parenchyma is tan/brown, firm, and unremarkable. Block summary: C1 - tissue beneath stitches, en face. C2 - mass and adjacent ductal structures. C3-C4 - - mass and surgical margin, closest approach,. perpendicular. C5 - additional section of mass with capsule and adjacent normal. liver parenchyma. C6 - liver parenchyma away from mass. A portion of tumor and normal is submitted to Tissue. Procurement. Tissue remains in formalin. Container D is additionally labeled "omental deposit.' It holds. a 5.2 X 5. X 1.5 cm fragment of yellow lobulated fat. Within. the center there is a 1.0 X 1.0 X 0.8 cm tan firm nodule. The. cut surface is tan/orange and firm. The specimen is entirely. submitted in blocks D1-D2; fat remains in formalin.
