patient_filename: TCGA-A6-2681.ec4bb62b-edf5-4051-8240-4e9d89fd928f
text: SPECIMEN. Right colon. CLINICAL NOTES. PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Cancerous cecum. GROSS DESCRIPTION. Received fresh labeled "right colon" is a previously. unopened 31 cm. segment of proximal right colon with. attached 28 cm. of distal ileum surfaced by smooth tan-pink serosa. with a copious amount of attached mesentery, mesocolon, and. unremarkable omentum. An unremarkable, 3.2 cm. appendix averaging. 0.6 cm. in diameter is present. The proximal and distal margins. measure 4.2 and 7.0 cm. in circumference respectively. On opening. there is a well-circumscribed, 2.8 X 2.5 cm. rubbery tan pink-red. tumor mass within the cecal pouch, 2 cm. distal to the ileocecal. valve. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal mucosa are. submitted for tissue procurement as requested. On sectioning, the. tumor has a maximal thickness of 0. cm., approaching the. muscularis. and extending to within 0.5 cm. of the inked free radial serosal. surface. The ileal mucosa and uninvolved colonic mucosa is. otherwise unremarkable glistening tan-pink with regular folds and. the walls average 0.5 cm. in thickness. A few uncomplicated. diverticula are evident throughout the colonic segment. Several. soft tan pink tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1. cm. in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesentery. and mesocolon. Representative sections are submitted in fifteen. blocks as labeled. RS-15. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Proximal and distal margins; [11-01] -. entire. lesion;. 6 - ileum; 7 - ICV; 8 - random colon; 9 - appendix; 10,11 - eight. whole lymph nodes per cassette; 12 - seven whole lymph nodes; 13-15. - one bisected lymph node per cassette. GROSS DESCRIPTION. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade: Moderately-differentiated. Primary tumor (pT3) : Carcinoma extends through the muscularis. propria into the subserosal fat. Proximal/distal/radial margins: Negative. Vascular invasion: Not identified. Regional lymph nodes (pN) : twenty-three negative lymph nodes. (0/23). Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified. Other findings : unremarkable appendix, ileum. Diverticulosis. 5. DIAGNOSIS. Colon, terminal ileum, appendix, right hemicolectomy: Adenocarcinoma, moderately-differentiated, with invasion through. the muscularis propria into the subserosal fat (pT3). Margins of excision: Negative. Vascular invasion: Not identified. Twenty-three negative lymph nodes 10/231.
