patient_filename: TCGA-A6-6652.b5adcacd-ddc5-45a4-acc8-37842e1bda14
text: SPECIMEN. A. Sigmoid colon. B. Liver lesion. CLINICAL NOTES. PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Sigmoid colon cancer. FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS. B. Subcapsular nodule c/w colonic adenocarcinoma. GROSS DESCRIPTION. A. Received fresh in a container labeled "sigmoid colon". is a 24 cm long segment of colon, which is received open at. one end, which is inked black black, and which is stapled at the. opposite end, which is inked blue. It is 5 cm in circumference. at. the open end of the specimen, and 9 cm in circumference at the. stapled end of the specimen. The serosal surface is generally. tan-pink and glistening, with an area with tattoo pigmented 11 cm. from the open end of the specimen. There is a palpable mass within. the bowel in this area, although there is not gross tumor. penetration to the serosal surface. The specimen is opened,. revealing a near circumferential 7.5 X 6.5 X 1.5 cm mass lesion,. coming to within 4.5 cm of the open end of the specimen. On cut. suface, there is invasion of tumor through the full thickness of the. bowel wall and into the surrounding adipose tissue, but the tumor is. not near the radial margin. The mucosa away from this area is area. is tan-pink and glistening, with multiple polyps, ranging from 0.3. cm to 0.7 cm in greatest dimension. There is no other worrisome. lesion in the bowel. The adipose tissue is dissected, and multiple. soft tan-pink lymph nodes are identified. RS-16, according to the. accompanying block summary, following fixation. BLOCK SUMMARY: A1 - proximal and distal resection margins; A2-A6 -. polyps; A7 - radial margin; A8-A10 - tumor; A11-A15 - lymph nodes,. h multiple lymph nodes per block; A16 - one sectioned lymph node. B. Received fresh in a container labeled "segment for. liver lesion" is a wedge-shaped portion of tissue, with. a. generally tan glistening capsular surface, but with an area of. tan-white discoloration on the capsular surface, and with the. non-capsular surface of the biopsy irregulary roughened and. cauterized. The specimen spans an area 2 X 1.5 X 1.1 cm. On cut. surface there is a nodular area approximately 0.6 cm in greatest. extent in the subcapsular region, corresponding to the discoloraton. noted on the capsular surface. Two sections are submitted for. frozen section, with the apparent lesion in block BFS1, and the. remainder of the specimen is submitted for permanent sections one. additional block. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION. The following template summarizes the findings in this case: Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma of the colon. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Primary tumor (pT) : Adenocarcinoma invades through the full. thickness of the bowel wall into surrounding adipose tissue (pT3). Proximal margin: Negative. Distal margin: Negative. Circumferential (radial) margin: Negative. Distance of tumor from closest margin: See gross description. Vascular invasion: Not definitively identified. Regional lymph nodes (pN) : pNO . Twenty-two lymph nodes are. identified, and they are negative for malignancy. Distant metastasis (pM) : pM1. There is metastatic colonic. adenocarcinoma in part B. Other findings: There are multiple hyperplastic polyps and an. adenomatous polyp in the colon away from the mass lesion. The liver. outside the metastasis is notable for steatosis with mild chronic. inflammation and a slight increase in fibrous tissue, though this. is difficult to assess given the supcapsular nature of the biopsy. and being adjacent to the metastasis. There no significant. stainable iron. Please note that in part B, in addition to. examining H&E stained sections, PAS, PAS-diastase, trichrome,. reticulin, and iron-stained sections are examined. 5,4,14,15,18x5. DIAGNOSIS. A. Colon, sigmoid, excision. - Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, invading through. the full thickness of the bowel wall and into surrounding. adipose tissue (see microscopic description). - Margins negative for malignancy. - Twenty-two lymph nodes negative for malignancy. - Hyperplastic polyps and adenomatous polyp. B. Liver, biopsy. - Metastatic colonic adenocarcinoma (see microscopic. description).
