patient_filename: TCGA-A6-3808.e1505f65-72ef-438d-a5e1-93ed8bf6635d
text: SPECIMEN. Right colon. CLINICAL NOTES. PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Carcinoma right colon. GROSS DESCRIPTION. Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled "right. colon". is a previously unopened 15 cm. segment of proximal right. colon with attached 15 cm. distal ileum surfaced by smooth to. scabrous tan pink serosa with a copious amount of attached. mesocolon. and mesentery. No appendix is present. The proximal and distal. margins measure 3.2 and 5.2 cm. in circumference respectively. On. opening there is a well circumscribed, 4.4 x 4.0 cm. rubbery tan. white-red tumor mass within the cecal pouch, 1 cm. distal to the. ileocecal valve. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal are. submitted for tissue procurement as requested. On sectioning, the. tumor has a maximal thickness of 1.1 cm., grossly extending through. the muscularis to within 0.1 cm. of the inked free serosal surface. The ileal mucosa and remaining colonic mucosa is unremarkable. glistening tan pink with irregular folds and the walls average 0.5. cm. in thickness. Multiple soft pale tan to tan pink tissues in. keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.4 cm. in greatest. dimension are recovered from the attached mesocolon and mesentery. Representative sections are submitted in 13 blocks as labeled. RS13. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Proximal and distal margins; 2-4 - tumor full. thickness to inked free radial serosal surface; 5 - tumor to. normal;. 6 - ileum; 7 - ICB; 8 - colon; 9 and 10 - eight whole lymph nodes. per cassette; 11 - six whole lymph nodes; 12 and 13 - one bisected. lymph node per cassette. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma with mucinous differentiation. Histologic grade Moderately-differentiated. Primary tumor (pT) : Tumor invades through the muscularis propria. into the pericolonic fat (pT3). Proximal margin: Negative. Distal margin: Negative. Circumferential (radial) margin: Negative. Vascular invasion: Negative. Regional lymph nodes (pN) : 24 lymph nodes are negative for. metastatic carcinoma (pN0). Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Absent. Distant metastasis (pM) : Cannot be assessed (pMx) . DIAGNOSIS. Colon, right and terminal ileum, resection: Invasive moderately-differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma with. mucinous differentiation extending through the wall of the colon. into the pericolonic fat. The proximal, distal and radial margins of resection are free of. tumor. Twenty four mesenteric lymph nodes are negative for. metastatic carcinoma (0/24).
