patient_filename: TCGA-A6-A565.177EECE8-D2CB-4CA4-81C5-949F14F793FA
text: SPECIMEN. Transverse colon segment - silk tie at splenic flexure node. CLINICAL NOTES. PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Transverse colon cancer. HISTORY: Same. GROSS DESCRIPTION. Received fresh labeled "transverse colon segment" is a. previously unopened 50 cm. segment of colon with attached. 2.5 cm. of distal ileum surfaced by smooth to focally retracted. glistening tan pink serosa with a moderate amount of unremarkable. omentum and an abundant amount of attached mesocolon. An. unremarkable, 3.6 cm. in length, 0.3 cm. in diameter appendix is. present. The proximal and distal margins measure 2.5 and 6.2 cm. in. circumference respectively. On opening, there is a circumferential,. 7.0 X 5.5 cm. glistening tan white-red tumor located 15 cm. from the. distal margin. On sectioning, the tumor has a maximal thickness of. 1.5 cm., grossly extending through the muscularis within 0.1 cm. of. the inked free radial serosal surface and focally extending into the. attached omentum. The remaining ileo and colonic mucosa is. diffusely edematous tan pink with irregular folds and the walls. average 0.5 cm. in thickness. A representative portion of tumor and. a portion of normal colonic mucosa are submitted for tissue. procurement as requested. A suture is present within the mesocolon. designating the splenic flexure node as stated previously. The node. is rubbery tan white and measures 1 cm. in greatest dimension. Multiple additional soft to slightly rubbery tan white-pink tissues. in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.4 cm. in greatest. dimension are recovered from the remainder of the mesocolon. The. largest node is recovered subjacent to the tumor. Representative. sections are submitted in 20 blocks as labeled. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Proximal margin including ICV; 2 - Distal. margin; 3 through 6 - Tumor to inked free radial serosal surface and. extending into the omentum; 7 - Tumor to normal mucosa; 8 and 9 -. Random normal mucosa from remainder of colon; 10 - Appendix; 11 -. Bisected node recovered from sutured area at splenic flexure; 12 and. 13 - Grossly positive nodes subjacent to tumor not previously. represented in prior sections; 14 through 16 - Eight whole lymph. nodes per cassette; 17 - Five whole lymph nodes; 18 through 20 - One. bisected node per cassette. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION. Histologic type: Mucinous signet ring cell carcinoma. Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated. Primary tumor (pT) : Tumor has invaded through the wall of the. transverse colon into the omentum (pT3d). Proximal margin: Negative. Distal margin: Negative. Circumferential (radial) margin: Negative. Vascular invasion: Present. Regional lymph nodes (pN) : Thirteen of forty-one mesenteric lymph. nodes contain metastatic adenocarcinoma (including the marked. splenic flexure lymph node) (13/41). (pN2). Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Present. Distant metastasis (pM) : Cannot be assessed (pMX) . Other findings: Appendix without significant histopathologic. findings. The largest tumor metastasis is 1.6 cm., with. extracapsular extension of tumor present in. multiple lymph nodes. Adenomatous polyp. DIAGNOSIS. Terminal ileum, appendix, right colon and transverse colon,. resection: Invasive poorly differentiated mucinous signet ring cell. adenocarcinoma, extending through the wall of the transverse. colon, into the adjacent omentum. Proximal, distal and radial margins of resection are free of. tumor. Thirteen of forty-one mesenteric lymph nodes contain metastatic. adenocarcinoma (including marked splenic flexure lymph node). (13/41) Appendix without significant histopathologic. findings. Adenomatous polyp. Vascular invasion by tumor is present.
