patient_filename: TCGA-A6-6649.fee7ee02-806c-463a-9841-5758c737207a
text: SPECIMEN. Right colon resected at. CLINICAL NOTES. PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Right colon cancer. GROSS DESCRIPTION. Received fresh labeled "right colon" is a previously. unopened 30 cm. segment of proximal right colon with. attached 8 cm. of distal ileum surfaced by smooth tan pink serosa. with a copious amount of attached, mesocolon, mesentery, and. unremarkable omentum. No appendix is identified. The proximal and. distal margins measure 4.0 and 8.0 cm. in circumference. respectively. On opening, there is a moderately well circumscribed,. 4.5 X 3.8 cm. rubbery tan white-pink tumor mass located 9 cm. distal. to the ileocecal valve. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal. mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. On. sectioning, the tumor has a maximal thickness of 1.8 cm., grossly. extending into the muscularis to within 0.6 cm. of the inked free. radial serosal surface. A few soft tan ink polypoid lesions. measuring up to 0.6 cm. in greatest dimension are present throughout. the remainder of the colon. The ileal and remaining colonic mucosa. is unremarkable, glistening tan pink with regular folds and the. walls average 0.5 cm. in thickness. Multiple soft to slightly. rubbery pale tan to tan-red tissues in keeping with lymph nodes. measuring up to 1.2 cm. in greatest dimension are recovered from the. attached mesocolon and mesentery. Representative sections are. submitted in 15 blocks as labeled. RS-15. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Proximal and distal margins; 2, 3 - tumor full. thickness to inked free radial serosal surface; 4 - central tumor; 5. tumor to normal mucosa; 6, 7 - colonic polyps; 8 - ICV; 9 - random. colon; 10-12 - six whole lymph nod per cassette; 13-15. one. bisected lymph node per cassette. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated. Primary tumor (pT) : Tumor invades through the full thickness of the. wall into the adjacent adipose tissue, pT3. Proximal margin: Negative for tumor. Distal margin: Negative for tumor. Circumferential (radial) margin: Tumor is not identified at the. outer serosal surface of the specimen. Distance of tumor from closest margin: 21 cm from distal margin of. excision. Vascular invasion: Present in pericolonic tissue. Regional lymph nodes (pN) : Two of twenty-three lymph nodes positive. for metastatic carcinoma (2/23), pN1b. Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Perineural invasion by tumor is. identified. Distant metastasis (pM) : pMX. Other findings: Separate adenomatous polyps are identified within. the colon. 5x1. DIAGNOSIS. Colon, right, excision - Invasive poorly differentiated. adenocarcinoma (see tumor characteristics in the colon resection. template in the microscopic description).
