patient_filename: TCGA-A6-2671.d96c8372-9f4b-4e94-b93d-faea6a1445b1
text: SPECIMEN. Left colon. CLINICAL NOTES. PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Sigmoid colon. GROSS DESCRIPTION. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin, labeled. "left colon" is a 22 cm long portion of colon. The. specimen is intact, partially covered with pink-tan, smooth. glistening serosa and abundant yellow lobular fat. The specimen is. unoriented. One end is inked blue and the opposite end is inked. black. The serosa is pink-tan smooth glistening and is partially. covered with abundant yellow lobular fat. The specimen is opened. to. show a pink-tan, smooth glistening mucosa with an average. circumference of 5.5 cm. The specimen shows a 3.7 x 2.5 x 0. cm. exophytic lesion which comes within 4.5 cm of the nearest luminal. margin. The cut surface of the tumor shows invasion through the. muscularis propria, and continuity with serosal puckering. There. is. invasion into the fat, coming within less than 1 cm of the radial. margin. The remainder of the mucosa is pink-tan, smooth glistening. with normal folds, having an average circumference of 5.5 cm. Lymph. nodes are grossly identified. Representative sections submitted as. follows: Block 1 - representative luminal margin; block 2 - tumor to normal. and serosal umbilication; block 3 - representative section of tumor. to fat and radial margin; block 4 - representative section of tumor. to radial margin; blocks 5 and 6 - possibly mottled lymph node. subjacent to tumor; block 7 - five possible lymph nodes subjacent. to. tumor; block 8 - nine possible lymph nodes; block 9 - four possible. lymph nodes; black 10 - five possible lymph nodes; block 11 - six. possible lymph nodes. RS-6. GROSS DESCRIPTION. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade: loderately-differentiated. Primary tumor pT3 (carcinoma extends through the muscularis. propria,. to less than 1 mm from the serosal surface, which is not directly. involved. Proximal margin: Negative. Distal margin: Negative. Circumferential (radial) margin: negative; carcinoma is less than. 1. mm from the radial margin. Vascular invasion: Probable. Regional lymph nodes (pN) : Metastatic carc穩noma in three of 27. lymph nodes (3/27). Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: four tumor nodules without. associated lymphoid tissue identified. 5. DIAGNOSIS. Colon, sigmoid, segmental resection: Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated. - Carcinoma invades through the muscularis propria into the. subserosal fat (pT3). - Margins negative (carcinoma less than 1 mm from the radial. margin) . - Metastatic carcinoma in three of 27 lymph nodes (3/27). - Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor deposits present within. the. serosal fat (four nodules) . DIAGNOSIS.
