patient_filename: TCGA-D7-8576.488da1fe-e3db-42bb-af66-6d6dc5936918
text: Material: 1) Material: stomach, Method of collection: Total organ resection. Histopathological Diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulare partim mucocellulare invasivum ventriculi (G3), pT3, pN2. Tubular and partially mucocellular invasive adenocarcinoma of the stomach. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No XV/XV. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes No XV/XV. Macroscopic description: The specimen consisting of the stomach, after being incised along the greater curvature, sized 18,6x15,4 cm with the omentum. sized 26x20cm. Wall thickening in the pyloric region over the area of 12x1 cm with ulceration of 2.5cm in diameter. Distance from the proximal end: 4.9cm, from distal end: 0.6cm. Microscopic description: Adenocarcinoma tubulare partim mucocellulare invasivum ventriculi (G3). Emboliae carcinomatosae massivae vasorum. Cancerous proliferation involving the whole thickness of the wall, infiltrates into the peritoneum, and fat tissue of the. omentum. (mixed type acc. to Lauren class.). (Proximal boundary) - free of cancer growth. (Distal boundary) - affected with cancer proliferation. Lymph nodes: 1,2/ (periorificial metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No (II/II). 3/ (lesser curvature): metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No (IV/IV). Infiltratio carcinomatosa capsulae. lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis. 4/ (greater curvature): metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No (VI/VI). Infiltratio carcinomatosa capsulae. lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis. 6/ (pyrolic): metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo No (I/I). Infiltratio carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodi et telae. adiposae perinodalis. 9/ (celiac artery): metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No (II/II). Infiltratio caricnomatosae capsulae lymphonodorum. et. telae adiposae perinodalis. Result of immunohistochemical examination. HER2 protein stained with Ventana's Pathway HER-2/neu (4B5) Rabbit Monoclonal Antibody.
