patient_filename: TCGA-JY-A6FG.C69267B7-ED3A-46CA-AC04-C6B110F5C556
text: M. Facility: Specimen(s) Received. 1. Stom-Resection: stomach and distal esophagus stitch marks proximal margin. 2. Lymph node: common hepatic nodes. 3. Lymph node: common hepatic nodes. Diagnosis. 1. Stomach and distal esophagus, total gastrectomy and distal esophagectomy: - squamous cell carcinoma, well to moderately differentiated, involving GE junction and proximal stomach with. approximately 1.5 cm extension into distal esophagus - see synoptic data and comment. - resection margins: negative for carcinoma. - metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in 5/18 lymph nodes (total lymph node count includes specimens #2 and #3). 2. Lymph node: common hepatic nodes. - lymph nodes x2: negative for carcinoma. 3. Lymph node: common hepatic nodes. - lymph nodes x3: negative for carcinoma. Comment. 1. The tumor is centered in the proximal stomach where it involves the entire gastric circumference. The tumor involves. the GE junction and approximately 1.0 cm of the distal esophagus. On the esophageal side, the tumor focally invades. adventitia and is 0.2 cm from the adventitial surface at the closest point. On the gastric side, the tumor extends into. perigastric fat and is approximately 1.2 cm from the radial margin. The tumor is a well to moderately differentiated. squamous cell carcinoma and given the presence of GEJ and distal esophageal involvement, is staged as an esophageal. carcinoma. There are a total of 18 lymph nodes identified including specimens #2 and #3, 5 of which contain metastatic. squamous cell carcinoma. Synoptic Data. Specimen Type: Esophagogastrectomy. Tumor Site: distal esophagus. Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 17.0 cm. Additional dimensions; 6.3 x 2.2 cm. Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma. Histologic Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated. Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pT3: Tumor invades adventitia. pN1b: 4 to 7 nodes involved. Number of lymph nodes examined: 18. Number of lymph nodes involved: 5. Margins: Proximal margin-Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distal margin-Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Circumferential (Adventitial) margin-Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 2.0 mm. Margin: adventitial. Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion (V): Absent. Lymphatic (Small Vessel) Invasion (L): Present. Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNM, 6th Edition. Gross Description. 1. STOMACH RESECTION FOR TUMOR. (INCLUDES GE JUNCTION TUMORS). GROSS EXAMINATION. RESECTION SPECIMEN: Distal esophagectomy and Total gastrectomy. FIXATION: Fixed. DIMENSIONS: Length along lesser curvature: 17.0 cm. Length along greater curvature: 33.0 cm. Circumference of distal gastric margin: 5.0 cm. Length of tubular esophagus: 2.0 cm. Circumference of proximal (esophageal) margin: 3.5 cm. TUMOR: - GEJ, proximal stomach and distal esophagus; grossly ~ 1.5 cm into distal esophagus and 4.8 cm into the proximal. stomach. - CONFIGURATION: exophytic, ulcerative. - DIMENSIONS: Diameters 6.3 x 17.0 cm. Depth 2.2 cm. - DESCRIPTIVE CHARACTERISTICS: Tan-brown in color, solid in consistency. With centrally ulcerated area and. irregular heaped up edges. - PERFORATION: no. - DISTANCE FROM MARGINS: - PROXIMAL: less than 1.0 cm. - DISTAL: 9.5 cm. - RADIAL: 1.2 cm (non-peritonealized soft tissue margin closest to deepest tumor penetration. ESTIMATED DEPTH OF INVASION : adventitia of esophagus and perigastric fat. LESIONS IN NONCANCEROUS STOMACH: None. LYMPH NODES: Multiple perigastric lymph nodes along the greater and lesser curvatures ranging in size from 0.7 to. 2.5-cm. Representative sections are submitted as follows: 1A-1B- frozen section blocks resubmitted. 1C-distal gastric resection margin en face. 1D- medial resection margin perpendicular sections. 1E-1H-tumor at the GE Junction and distal esophagus. 1I-1R-tumor at the proximal stomach showing it to deepest invasion. 1S-uninvolved distal stomach. 1T-1U-one lymph node each block bisected. 1V-1W-one lymph node serially sectioned. 1X-one lymph node bisected. 1Y-one lymph node bisected. 1Z-5 lymph nodes. 1AA-3 lymph nodes. Four pieces of tumor/normal were taken for tissue bank. 2. The specimen container is labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph Node: Common hepatic nodes. consists of two fragments tissue measuring 1.8 x 1.0 x 0.6 and in other and 4.2 x 3.1 x 0.3-cm received fresh, This is. examined at intraoperative consultation by frozen section performed on part of the specimen. On the bigger piece of. tissue there is a nodule identified measuring 1.1 x 1.0 x 0.2 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto as follows: 2A-2B- frozen section blocks resubmitted. 2C-remainder of fatty tissue. 3. The specimen container is labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph Node: Common hepatic nodes. consists of a piece of fatty tissue measuring 2.0 x 1.7 x 0.6 and two received in 10% buffered formalin. 3A specimen is bisected and submitted in toto. in. Quick Section Diagnosis. 1. Stomach and distal esophagus (proximal esophageal margin en face): - Tumour grossly > 1.0 cm away from margin. - En face margin is negative for malignancy. 2. Common hepatic nodes: Two lymph nodes found, negative for malignancy (0/2).
