patient_filename: TCGA-JY-A6FD.764C0C6D-DBC9-445C-8A7B-E39FDE5B6C70
text: F. Facility: Specimen(s) Received. 1. Lymph-Node: ST10L TB Angle. 2. GE Resection: proximal stomach and total thoracic esophagus. 3. Esophagogastric Resection: Final esophageal margin. 4. Stomach Resection: Final gastric margin. Diagnosis. 1. Lymph-Node: ST10L TB Angle: - lymph node x1: negative for malignancy. 2. Proximal stomach and total thoracic esophagus, resection: - squamous cell carcinoma of distal esophagus, well differentiated, extending into periadventitial tissue, lymph node. negative (0/26), pT3pNO - see synoptic data and comment. 3. Esophago-gastric Resection: Final esophageal margin: - portion of esophagus: negative for malignancy. 4. Stomach Resection: Final gastric margin: - portion of stomach: negative for malignancy. Comment. 2. The tumor focally extends into adventitial tissue and is 0.1 cm from the painted outside surface of the specimen at the. closest point. The tumor extends to the level of the GE junction. There is no evidence of involvement of the stomach. Synoptic Data. Specimen Type: Esophagogastrectomy. Tumor Site: distal esophagus. Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 7.0 cm. Additional dimensions: 4.5 x 1.2 cm. Histologic Type: Squamous cell carcinoma. Histologic Grade: G1: Well differentiated. Pathologic Staging (pTNM): pT3: Tumor invades adventitia. pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis. Number of lymph nodes examined: 26. Number of lymph nodes involved: 0. Margins: Proximal margin-Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distal margin-Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Circumferential (Adventitial) margin-Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 1.0 mm. Margin: adventitial. Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion (V): Absent. Lymphatic (Small Vessel) Invasion (L): Absent. Additonal Pathologic Findings: Gastritis (type): chronic inactive gastritis, negative for H. pylori. Gross Description. 1. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "lymph-node: ST10L TB angle". One lymph node measuring 1.0 x 0.9 x 0.3 cm. 1A bisected and submitted in toto. 2. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "GE resection: Proximal stomach and total thoracic. esophagus". Resection specimen: gastro-esophagectomy. Fixation: Received fresh. DIMENSIONS: Length of tubular esophagus: 8.0 cm. Circumference of tubular esophagus at proximal resection margin: 4.0 cm. Length of stomach: 3.0 cm. Circumference of stomach at distal resection margin: 7.0 cm. TUMOR: Measurement: 7.0 cm in length x 4.5 cm circumferentially at the gastroesophageal junction x 1.2 cm in depth. Configuration: Oval, with tumor within the distal esophagus, extending to GE junction and ? proximal stomach. Description: Raised, exophytic borders, with depressed, ulcerating base. Depth of invasion: Through muscle wall. RESECTION MARGINS: Proximal esophageal: 5.0 cm. Distal gastric: 4.2 cm. Adventitial: 0.2 cm. The adventitial margin is painted with green dye in sections submitted. LESIONS IN NONCANCEROUS ESOPHAGUS AND/OR STOMACH: None. Barrett's esophagus cannot be grossly. appreciated. ADDITIONAL STRUCTURES: None. FROZEN SECTION: The esophageal margin is submitted in toto en face in two blocks for intraoperative consultation by frozen section. An en face margin of the gastric margin closest to the tumor is submitted in a third block for intraoperative consultation by. frozen section. LYMPH NODES: Multiple lymph nodes measuring from 0.2 to 3.5 cm in maximum dimension are identified within the. perigastric and paraesophageal soft tissue. TISSUE BANKING: The tumor (three pieces) and normal tissue (two pieces) are sampled for tissue banking. Representative sections are submitted as follows: 2A-2B esophageal resection margin in toto en face, bisected, frozen section blocks resubmitted. 2C gastric resection margin closest to tumor en face, frozen section block resubmitted. 2D-2F esophagus proximal to tumor. 2G-2M gastroesophageal tumor, full thickness sections. 2N-2O stomach distal to tumor. 2P representative en face distal gastric margin. 2Q-2T one quadrisected paraesophageal lymph node. 2U-2W one bisected paraesophageal lymph node per block. 2X-2AB two paraesophageal lymph nodes per block. 2AC one bisected perigastric lymph node. 2AD-2AF two perigastric lymph nodes per block. 2AG three perigastric lymph nodes. 2H two perigastric lymph nodes. 3. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "esophagogastric resection: Final esophageal margin". One unoriented ring-shaped piece of soft tissue measuring 2.5x2.3 x 0.4 cm. 3A submitted in toto. 4. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "stomach resection: Final gastric margin". One unoriented piece of gastric tissue measuring 9.7 x 4.0 x 0.4 cm. A staple line is present along one margin. 4A-4D stapled margin in toto en face (staple line removed). Quick Section Diagnosis. 2. Proximal stomach and total thoracic esophagus: Esophageal resection margin en face - 2A, 2B: Negative for malignancy. Gastric resection margin at point closest to tumor, one representative section en face - 2C: Negative for malignancy. Reported to.
