patient_filename: TCGA-KB-A93G.3B97BD54-A8BB-437D-9C2D-512B1903C051
text: M. Facility: Specimen(s) Received. 1. Lung: station 8. 2. Esophagus: proximal esophageal margin. 3. Esophagus: thoracic esophagus and proximal stomach and quick section of gastric margin. 4. lymph node: RT TB angle ST10R. 5. lymph node: subcarinal ST7. 6. Surgical Waste. 7. Esophagus: Final esophageal margin. 8. Stomach Resection: proximal stomach. 
Diagnosis. 
1. Lung, station 8: Regional lymph node (n = 1), negative for malignancy. 
2. Esophagus, proximal esophageal margin: Negative for malignancy. 
3. Esophagus, thoracic esophagus and proximal stomach: Adenocarcinoma with signet ring differentiation (more than 50% of tumor mass), pT2NOMx - see synoptic for details. 
4. Lymph node, RT TB angle ST10R: Regional lymph node (n = 1), negative for malignancy. 
5. Lymph node, subcarinal ST7: Regional lymph node (n = 8), negative for malignancy. 
6. Surgical Waste: No significant pathology (gross exam only). 
7. Esophagus, Final esophageal margin: Negative for malignancy. 
8. Stomach Resection, proximal stomach: Stomach resection margin, negative for malignancy. 
Regional lymph node (n=1), negative for malignancy. Comment. 6. "THIS SPECIMEN HAS BEEN EXAMINED BY GROSS VISUAL EXAMINATION ONLY. NO MICROSCOPIC. EXAMINATION HAS BEEN PERFORMED. IF THERE IS A CLINICAL INDICATION OR SUSPICION OF AN. ABNORMALITY THAT WOULD REQUIRE ADDITIONAL STUDIES THEN THE SIGNING PATHOLOGIST (BELOW). SHOULD BE CONTACTED WITHIN ONE MONTH OF THE ISSUING OF THIS REPORT.'. Synoptic Data. Specimen: Esophagus. Proximal stomach. Procedure: Esophagogastrectomy. Primary Tumor Site: Proximal stomach and esophagogastric junction. Additional Sites Involved by Tumor: Distal esophagus (lower thoracic esophagus). Relationship of Tumor to Esophagogastric Junction: Tumor midpoint lies in the proximal stomach or cardia and tumor involves the. esophagogastric junction. Distance of tumor center from esophagogastric junction is not applicable (.). Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma. Histologic Grade: G1: Well differentiated. Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 6.2 cm. Additional dimension: 5 cm. Additional dimension: 1.2 cm. Microscopic Tumor Extension: Tumor invades muscularis propria. Status of Margin Involvement: All margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 1.5 cm. Closest margin: Proximal. Proximal Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Uninvolved by dysplasia. Distal Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Uninvolved by dysplasia. Circumferential (Adventitial) or Deep Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Not identified: Perineural Invasion: Not identified: Primary Tumor (pT): pT2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pNO: No regional lymph node metastasis. Number of lymph nodes examined: 32. Number of lymph nodes involved: 0. Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable: Additional Pathologic Findings: High grade dysplasia. Other: intestinal metaplasia in the cardia. Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th Edition. Clinical History. esophageal CA. Gross Description. 1. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Lung: Station 8" consists of an anthracotic lymph node. measuring 0.3 cm in diameter surrounded by adipose tissue. 1A submitted in toto. 2. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Proximal esophageal margin" consists of a single piece of soft. tissue measuring 3.1 x 1.2 x 1.1 cm with a staple line closing one side. The opposite side is opened and shows a. mucosal ring measuring 1.5 x 1.3 cm. The open end is trisected and submitted, at intraoperative consult, as block 2A. The tissue adjacent to the stapled end is submitted, at intraoperative consult, as block 2B. Representative sections: 2A-2B frozen section tissue, resubmitted. 3. The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "Thoracic esophagus and proximal stomach and quick section. of gastric margin". RESECTION SPECIMEN: Partial esophagectomy with proximal gastrectomy received with both ends stapled closed,. outer surface painted with silver nitrate. FIXATION: Received fresh, placed in 10% neutral buffered formalin. DIMENSIONS: Length along lesser curvature: 8.0 cm. Length along greater curvature: 11.0 cm. Circumference of distal gastric margin: 24.0 cm. Circumference of proximal esophageal margin: 4.2 cm. Length of tubular esophagus: 4.4 cm. TUMOR. - Gastric region: Cardia. -lesser curvature. -posterior wall. -80% of tumor mass located in gastric cardia, 20% in the distal esophagus. - CONFIGURATION: Non-circumferential. - DIMENSIONS: Diameters: 6.2 x 5.0 cm. Depth: 1.2 cm. - DESCRIPTIVE CHARACTERISTICS: The lesion has rolled edges with an ulcerated center. The central area is covered. with mucoid material. The cut surface has a glistening mucinous appearance. - PERFORATION: No. - DISTANCE FROM MARGINS: - PROXIMAL: 1.5 cm. - DISTAL: 3.0 cm. - RADIAL: 3.0 cm (non-peritonealized soft tissue margin closest to deepest tumor penetration). ESTIMATED DEPTH OF INVASION: Through gastric wall to serosa. LESIONS IN NONCANCEROUS STOMACH: None seen. LESIONS IN NONCANCEROUS ESOPHAGUS: None seen. LYMPH NODES: Several perigastric lymph nodes along the greater and lesser curvatures. FROZEN SECTION: Tissue is taken from the closest gastric margin and submitted, en face, in block 3A. Tissue is stored frozen. Representative Sections: 3A frozen section tissue, resubmitted. 3B proximal edge of tumor with adjacent proximal esophagus extending to the stapled proximal margin. 3C edge of tumor at GE junction. 3D-3E central sections of tumor, full thickness. 3F distal edge of tumor with adjacent stomach. 3G uninvolved stomach. 3H radial margin, en face. LYMPH NODES. Esophagus. 3) 4 lymph nodes. Omentum. 3J 6 lymph nodes. 3K 5 lymph nodes. 3L-3Q 1 lymph node bisected, per block. 4. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "RT TB angle ST10R" consists of a single piece of tissue. measuring 1.6 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is submitted, in toto, at frozen section as block 4A. Submitted in toto. 4A frozen section tissue, resubmitted. 5. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Subcarinal ST7" consists of a piece of fibroadipose tissue. measuring 2.5 x 2.5 X 1.0 cm. Within the tissue multiple anthracotic lymph nodes that measure from 0.7 to 1.7 cm. Representative sections, lymph node submitted in toto: 5A 3 lymph nodes. 5B 2 lymph nodes. 5C 3 lymph nodes. 6. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Surgical waste" consists of a piece of rubbery yellow-tan tissue. measure 1.6 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm. No nodules are identified within the tissue. No sections are submitted for histological examination. 7. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Final esophageal margin" consists of a strip of mucosa with blue. suture material measuring 5.8 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The specimen is longitudinally bisected. 7A submitted in toto. 8. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Proximal stomach" consists of a wedge resection of stomach. received with a single continuous staple line. The specimen measures 8.0 cm along the greater curvature with a. proximal luminal diameter of 9.0 cm and a distal luminal diameter of 4.5 cm. The mucosa demonstrates normal folds. There are multiple small nodules on the mucosal surface. There are no discrete lesions. Within the adherent greater. omentum, 1 possible lymph node measuring 0.2 cm is identified. Representative sections: 8A tissue at proximal and, en face. 8B tissue at distal end, en face. 8C mucosa with nodules. 8D 1 possible lymph node. Quick Section Diagnosis. 2A,B (proximal esophageal margin): negative for carcinoma. 3A (gastric margin): negative for carcinoma (en face section of closest margin). 4A (ST10R lymph node): negative for carcinoma. Reported to.
