patient_filename: TCGA-L5-A8NQ.26722297-F12C-41B3-94E6-5686A6B7DEBB
text: PREVIOUS DIAGNOSIS INQUIRY. 2. REPORT DATE: PATIENT NBR: SEX: M. ADM DATE: BIRTHDATE: OPER DATE: REQ DOC: PROCEDURE: -year-olc male recently diagnosed with poorly differentiated squamous cel. carcinoma of mid-esophagus. Transhiatal esophagectomy/Tumor esophagus 4 x 4 cm. tumor 7cm above GE junction. PROCEDURE: 1. "Esophagus". 9.5 x 3.5 cm previously opened specimen of distal mid and. distal esophagus and proximal stomach with 12 x 5 x 2 cm fragment of the. beriesophageal and perigastric fat. Specimen includes 7 cm of the distal. esophagus and approximately 3.5 cm of the proximal stomach. 2.5 x 1.5 cm ul cer. situated 2.5 cm distal to the proximal resection edge. The mucosa proximal and. the distal from this lesion is wrinkled, gray and glistening. The gastric. folds are pink-tan and unremarkable. The serial section through the lesion. which occupies approximately 50% of the esophagea circumference reveal maximum. depths of invasion 1.2 cm through the lamina propria inked of the. It approaches deep resection margin within less than 0.1 cm. 1A. Distal gastric margin. (Shaved). 1B-E. Consecutive sections of the longitudinal stirp of the mucosa from. cephalea to caudal, distal margin inked green. 1F. Deepest tumor extension. 1G. Additional tumor section. 1H. Additional tumor section. Multiple possible Lymph nodes identified in the. areas of esophageal and perigastric fat submitted in cassette 11. 2. "Cervical esophageal margin". 2.5 Cm segment of the tubal esophagus stapled. at one end with great wrinkled, unremarkable mucosa. Sectioned. Submitted. 2A. 3. "Gastro hepatic Ligament" 2 x 1 x 0.5 cm fragment of brown-tan adipose. Entirely submitted. 4. "Left jugular lymph node". 1 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm lymph node. Entirely submitted. in cassette 4. PROCEDURE: ESOPHAGEAL, CARDIAC AND GASTROESOPHAGEAL JUNCTION CARCINOMA: Type of carcinoma: Squamous cell carcinoma. Depth of invasion: Muscularis propria. PREVIOUS DIAGNOSIS INQUIRY. REPORT nate. 3. PATIENT NBR: SEX: M. ADM DATE: BIRTHDATE: OPER DATE: REQ DOC: Number of positive lymph nodes: 0/3. Extranodal metastasis: Unknown. Pattern of invasion: Infiltrative. Esophageal and gastric resection margins involved: No. Deep resection margin involved: No. TNM classification: T2 NO MX. PROCEDURE: 1. Esophagus, esophagectomy: Invasive squamous cell carcinoma,. borly-differentiated, at least 2.5 cm, invading into the muscularis propria. Margins of resection negative. Three periesophageal nodes negative for. carcinoma. See template. 2. Cervicoesophageal margin, resection: Negative for carcinoma. 3. Gastrohepatic ligament, biopsy: Unremarkable adipose tissue. 4. Left jugular lymph node, resection: One lymph node negative for carcinoma. M.D. the signing staff pathologist, have personally. examined and interpreted the slides from this case. Code:
