patient_filename: TCGA-S8-A6BW.820EE304-5074-4DDA-A33A-2560184666F1
text: Clinical Information: year male with history of dysphagia and PET positive mass. Operative Procedure: Ivor Lewis esophagectomy. A: Stomach margin (FS). B: Esophagus. C: Esophageal margin (FS). D: Subcarinal lymph node. E: Portal lymph node. Final Pathologic Diagnosis: A. Stomach, margin, excision: Negative for malignancy. Fifteen benign lymph nodes (0/15). Granuloma consistent with the history of sracoidosis. B. Esophagus, Ivor-Lewis esophagectomy: Specimen: Esophagus. Procedure: Ivor-Lewis esophagectomy. Tumor site: Esophagus, not otherwise specified. Relationship of tumor to esophagogastric junction: Tumor is entirely located above the esophagogastric junction. Distance of tumor center from esophagogastric junction cannot be assessed. Tumor size: 5.2 x 4.3 x 2.1 cm. Histologic type: Squamous cell carcinoma. Histologic grade: Well differentiated. Microscopic tumor extension: Tumor invades into the muscularis propria. Margins: Proximal margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distal margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Circumferential (adventitial) margin: Uninvolved by invasive. carcinoma. If all margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma,. distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: <0.1 cm. Specify margin: Circumferential. (adventitial) margin. Treatment effect: None. Lymph-vascular invasion: Not identified. Perineural invasion: Not identified. Pathologic staging (pTNM): TNM descriptors: None known. Primary tumor (pT): pT2. Regional lymph nodes (pN): pNO. Number examined: 22 also see parts A, D, and E. Number involved: 0. Distant metastasis (pM): pMX. Additional pathologic findings: Granuloma consistent with the history. of sracoidosis. C. Esophagus, margin, resection: Negative for malignancy. Frozen section diagnosis confirmed. D. Lymph node, subcarinal, excision: One benign lymph node (0/1). Granuloma consistent with the history of sracoidosis. E. Lymph node, portal, excision: One benign lymph node (0/1). Granuloma consistent with the history of sracoidosis. The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were. Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis: FSA1&A2: Stomach margin: Negative for tumor. F/S TAT: 14.5 mins. FSC: Esophageal margin: Negative for tumor. F/S TAT: 16 mins. Gross Description: Received are five containers, all labeled with the patient's name. Part A is received fresh for frozen section and additionally labeled "stomach. margin" and consists of an 8.2 x 5.2 x 4.7 cm partial stomach resection. There. is a moderate amount of attached fat. There is also 0.9 cm of distal esophagus. attached. The esophageal mucosa is tan-pink and wrinkled. The gastric mucosa is. tan with the normal folds. Representative sections are submitted as follows: A1. residual tissue from frozen section A1;. A2-3. residual frozen section A2;. A4-5. representative sections of GE junction;. A6. one whole probable lymph node trisected;. A7-9. probable lymph nodes. Part B is received in formalin additionally labeled "esophagus" and consists of. a 9.7 cm in length segment of esophagus with moderate attached amount of fat. The specimen is not oriented. The specimen is previously opened to reveal a 5.2. x 4.3 cm tan centrally ulcerated mass with raised, irregular well delineated. borders. The mass comes to within 1.6 cm of the mucosal margin and 4.9 cm of the. opposing mucosal margin. The mass on sectioning is tan, firm and homogeneous. with a thickness of 2.1 cm. The mass involves the muscularis propria and. possibly extends to the subjacent fat and abuts the inked deep margin. The. uninvolved esophageal mucosa is tan-pink and wrinkled. Search of the adjacent. fat reveals a 2.9 X 2.3 X 1.5 cm lymph node and additional multiple probable. lymph nodes. Representative sections are submitted as follows: B1-4. representative sections of tumor;. B5-6 normal esophagus;. B7. representative sections of lymph node;. B8. multiple probable lymph nodes. Part C is received fresh for frozen section and additionally labeled "esophageal. margin" and consists of three portions of pink-tan soft tissue. Residual. sections are submitted in cassettes C1 and C2. Part D is received in formalin and additionally labeled "subcarinal lymph node". and consists of two portions of tan-brown irregular soft tissue, one with. dimensions of 1.7 X 0.7 X 0.3 cm and the second with dimensions of 1.9 x 0.5 x. 0.2 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto in cassette D1. Part E is received in formalin and additionally labeled "portal lymph node" and. consists of a portion of pink-tan to brown irregular soft tissue with dimensions. of 3.1 X 1.4 x 1.2 cm. The specimen is step sectioned to reveal a pink-tan cut. surface. Representative sections are submitted in cassette E1. Microscopic Description: The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination. findings. (Age ) Gender: M.
