patient_filename: TCGA-XP-A8T8.3CA9BE22-CEFC-4970-A4FC-95D235386C84
text: Nature of material: Esophagus. ANATOMOPATHOLOGIC RESULT. MACROSCOPY. Received 3 vials, identified as follows: Vial 1 (Esophagus): Received in formalin, surgical specimen represented by the esophagus. and proximal stomach, previously opened at its greatest diameter, weighing 79 grams. The. esophagus measures 11.5 X 2.2 X 1.5 cm while the stomach measures 7.5 cm in length and 3.1. cm in diameter, lying stapled at its distal end. The outer surface of the esophagus is grayish and. rough without drilling or infiltration areas. Its wall is whitish and shows thickening in its middle. third, where is observed infiltrating and ulcerated mucosal lesion with 2.1 cm in length. The. lesion is 4.1 cm distant from closer surgical margin (distal). The stomach segment displays. brown and smooth serous. To the cuts, the mucosa is brown and wrinkled, without macroscopic. lesions. The dissection of the fat adjacent to the viscera shows nodular, gray and fibroelastic. structures, with higher measures ranging from 0.3 to 0.9 cm. - Vial 2 (Lymph node): nodular, gray and fibroelastic structure, with smooth outer surface and. absence of macroscopic lesion to the cuts, measuring 0.8 X 0.5 X 0.3 cm. - Vial 3 (Liver): brown tissue fragment, hardened and rectangular, measuring 0.5 X 0.3 X 0.3 cm. MICROSCOPY. Description dispensable. DIAGNOSTIC. Product of esophagectomy and partial gastrectomy: -Well-differentiated squamous cell carcinoma, focally ulcerated in the middle third of the. esophagus, associated with extensive in-situ component. -Predominance of areas with squamous cell carcinoma in situ, being that the neoplasm has. macroscopic measure 2.2 X 2.1 cm. -Macroscopic shape: ulcerated and infiltrative. -Degree of infiltration: submucosa. -Discrete desmoplastic stromal reaction. -Absence of lymphoid aggregates in the peritumoral stroma. -Absence of vascular infiltration. -Absence of perineural infiltration. -Free surgical margins. -Metastasis in 1 of 10 evaluated lymph nodes (1/10). -Gastric mucosa of body/fundus standard with moderate chronic inflammatory process, focally. active. Positive resence for Helicobacter pylori in small quantity. -Pathological staging pT1b pN1. Product of liver biopsy: -Steatohepatitis stage 3, with moderate steatosis (40% of the fragment). PARTICIPANTS OF APPRAISAL REPORT. - ISSUER. - REVIEWER.
