patient_filename: TCGA-L5-A8NK.2249DA6D-2344-4D15-8D0C-2FB44CC2818E
text: OPER DATE: REQ DOC: PROCEDURE: with two month history of mid retrosternal dysphagia (+) 20 pd wt. loss over past month. Clinical Diagnosis: Esophageal cancer. Operative. Procedure: THE. 1) Cervical esophagus. 2) Cervical esophageal margin. 3) Mid. right paraesophageal LN. 4) Left gastric LN, celiac angle. PROCEDURE: 1. "Cervical esophagus" Received in formalin in a large container is a 12.2 cm. segment of previously opened esophagus with a tan-brown unremarkable. adventitial surface. Upon opening the mucosa surface is white-tan, smooth and. glistening with the exception of a 3 x 2 cm ulcerating lesion (C's depth: .1. cm) that involves approximately 50% of the circumference. The Lesion is 2.5. cm. away from the stapled margin. Specimen inked blue and sectioned. Grossly the. adventitial surface under the lesion is firm and indurated and it appears that. the tumor mass involves the whole circumference of the esophagus underneath. the mucosa. The tumor extends into the adventitie. 1A. Nargin closest to tumor. 1B. Margin furthest away from tumor. 1C-F. One linear section of esophagus from margin nearest tumor to distal. margin. 1G. Possible lymph nodes. 2. "Cervical esophageal margin" Received in formalin in a small container is a. 1 cm segment of esophagus with staples at one end. Mucosal and serosal surface. are grossly unremarkable. 3. "Left gastric lymph node taken from celiac origin Received in formalin. in. a small container is a yellow-tan 0.6 cm diameter soft tissue mass. Bisected. 4. "Mid-right paraesophageal Lymph node" Received in formal in in a small. container is a brown-tan 0.5 cm soft tissue bit. PROCEDURE: ESOPHAGEAL, CARDIAC AND GASTROESOPHAGEAL JUNCTION CARCINOMA: PREVIOUS DIAGNOSIS INQUIRY. 3. REPORT DATE: SEX: F. PATIENT NBR: ADM DATE: BIRTHDATE: REQ DOC: OPER DATE: Type of carcinoma: Squamous cell carcinoma. Depth of invasion: Periesophageal soft tissue. Number of positive l'ymph nodes: 0/14. Extranodal metastasis: Unknown. Pattern of invasion: Infiltrative. Esophageal and gastric resection margins involved: No. Deep resection margin involved: Yes. TNM classification: T3 NO Mx. PROCEDURE: 1 & 2. Esophagus, transhistal esophagectomy: Invasive well differentiated. squamous cell cell carcinoma. The tumor traverses the muscularis propria and. extends into the periesophageal soft tissue. The tumor is present at the inked. periesophageal soft tissue margin. The proximal and distal surgical margins. are negative. Six periesophageal Lymph nodes are negative for neoplasm. See. template. 3. Left gastric Lymph nodes, excision: Six lymph nodes negative for. malignancy. 4. Mid right periesophageal lymph node, excision: One lymph node negative for. neoplasm. , M.D. 1, M.D., the signing this staff case. pathologist, have personally. examined and interpreted the slides from. Code: END OF PREVIOUS DIAGNOSIS INQUIRY.
