patient_filename: TCGA-JY-A6FH.E3C47978-F49B-4DBA-BE6F-7E3985BCCEFC
text: M. Facility: Specimen(s) Received. 1. Lymph-Node: Left Cervical. 2. Lymph node :left paratracheal Lymph node. 3. Lymph node :paracardial nodes. 4. Lymph node :para esophageal. 5. Lymph node :Left gastric nodes. 6. Stomach Resection :Esophagus and proximal stomach margin on stomach. 7. Lymph node Para esophageal. 8. Esophagus Final esophageal margin. Diagnosis. 1. Lymph-Node: Left Cervical: - lymph node x1: negative for carcinoma. 2. Lymph node :left paratracheal Lymph node: - lymph nodes x2: i. negative for carcinoma. ii. fibrotic nodule with features consistent with hyalinized granuloma - see comment. 3. Lymph node paracardial nodes. - lymph nodes x4: negative for carcinoma. 4. Lymph node :para esophageal. - lymph node x1: i. negative for carcinoma. ii. fibrotic nodule with features consistent with hyalinized granuloma - see comment. - lymph node x1: negative for carcinoma. 5. Lymph node :Left gastric nodes. - metastatic adenocarcinoma in 2/9 lymph nodes. 6. Esophagus and proximal stomach, resection: - adenocarcinoma of esophagus, moderately differentiated, invading muscularis propria - see synoptic data and comment. metastatic adenocarcinoma in 2/18 lymph nodes (total lymph node count includes specimens #1 to #4). - resection margins: negative for carcinoma. 7. Lymph node Para esophageal. - fibroadipose tissue and smooth muscle: negative for carcinoma. 8. Esophagus :Final esophageal margin: - negative for carcinoma. Comment. 6. The tumor is a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, involving distal esophagus and extending into proximal. stomach. The tumor invades muscularis propria and is accompanied by foci of high grade dysplasia in a background of. intestinal metaplasia. Glands with high grade dysplasia are mostly present beneath intact squamous mucosa, suggestive. of underlying foci of sub-squamous Barrett's mucosa. There is metastatic adenocarcinoma in 2/18 lymph nodes. There. are two lymph nodes (specimens #2 and #4) with areas of hyalinization associated with some palisading macrophages. and an occasional multinucleated giant cell, features in keeping with hyalinized granulomas. The differential diagnosis is. wide and includes prior infection with histoplasma, other infectious etiologies as weil as sarcoidosis. There are no acid fast. bacilli or fungi identified utilizing ZN and PAS stains.. Synoptic Data. Specimen: Esophagus. Proximal stomach. Procedure: Esophagogastrectomy. Tumor Site: Distal esophagus (lower thoracic esophagus). Esophagogastric junction (EGJ). Proximal stomach and esophagogastric junction. Relationship of Tumor to Esophagogastric Junction: Tumor midpoint is located at the esophagogastric junction. Distance of tumor center from esophagogastric junction: 0 cm. Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 3.4 cm. Additional dimension: 1.8 cm. Additional dimension: 0.7 cm. Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma. Histologic Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated. Microscopic Tumor Extension: Tumor invades muscularis propria. Proximal Margin: Involved by invasive carcinoma. Uninvolved by dysplasia. Distal Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Uninvolved by dysplasia. Circumferential (Adventitial) or Deep Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Status of All Margins: All margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 0.3 cm. Closest margin: Circumferential. Treatment Effect: No prior treatment. Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Present. TNM Descriptors: Not applicable. Primary Tumor (pT): pT2: Tumor invades muscularis propria. Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pN1: Regional lymph node metastasis involving 1 to 2 nodes. Number of regional lymph nodes examined: 18. Number of regional lymph nodes involved: 2. Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable. Additional Pathologic Findings: Intestinal metaplasia (Barrett's esophagus). Dysplasia, high grade. Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th Edition. Clinical History. esophageal ca at the GE junction. Gross Description. 1. The requisition is labeled wit h the patient's name. and "left cervical lymph node". The container. matches the requisition. The specimen consists of a single, unoriented, tan piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 0.7 x 0.6 x. 0.3 cm. It is bisected and submitted in toto in one block, 1A. 2. The requisition is labeled with the patient's name and "left paratracheal lymph node". The container matches the. requisition. The specimen consist of two pieces of unoriented, tan fibrofatty tissue, the largest measuring 1.5 x 0.6 x 0.4. cm and the smallest measuring 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. The largest piece contains one hard lymph node measuring 0.8 x 0.4 x. 0.3 cm, which is bisected and submitted in toto in one block, 2A. The smallest piece contains one soft lymph node. measuring 0.3 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm, which is bisected and submitted in toto in one block, 2B. 3. The requisition is labeled with the patient's name and "paracardial nodes. The container matches the requisition. The specimen consists of two unoriented, tan pieces of fibrofatty tissue, the largest measuring 4.3 x 3.5 x 0.6 cm, the. smallest measuring 3.5 x 1.8 x 0.4 cm. Gross dissection reveals a total of four (4) soft, unremarkable lymph nodes,. measuring from 1.5 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm to 0.9 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm. Sections are submitted as follows: 3A. One lymph node in toto, bisected. 3B. One lymph node in toto, bisected. 3C. One lymph node in toto, bisected. 3D. One lymph node in toto, bisected. 4. The requisition is labeled with the patient's name and "paraesophageal. The container matches the requisition. The specimen consists of one unoriented, tan piece of fibrofatty tissue measuring 3.5 x 3.5 x 1.5 cm. Gross dissection. reveals two (2) soft, unremarkable lymph nodes, the largest measuring 2.0 x 0.6 x 0.5cm, and the smallest measuring 1.0. x 0.3 x 0.3 cm. Sections are submitted as follows: 4A. Largest lymph node in toto, trisected. 4B. Smallest lymph node in toto, trisected. 5. The requisition is labeled with the patient's name and "left gastric nodes. The container matches the requisition. The specimen consists of a cylindrical, tan, unoriented piece fibrofatty tissue measuring 4.0 x 3.5 x 3.0 cm. Gross. dissection reveals nine (9) soft, unremarkable lymph nodes, measuring from 1.3 x 1.0 x 0.7cm to 0.5 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm. Sections are submitted as follows: 5A. One (1) lymph node in toto, trisected. 5B. One (1) lymph node in toto, bisected. 5C. One (1) lymph node in toto, bisected. 5D. One (1) lymph node in toto, bisected. 5E. One (1) lymph node in toto, bisected. 5F. One (1) lymph node in toto, bisected. 5G. Three (3) lymph nodes in toto. 6. The requisition is labeled wit h the patient's name and "esophagus and proximal stomach " ". The container matches the. requisition. GROSS EXAMINATION. RESECTION SPECIMEN: esophagectomy. FIXATION: Fixed. DIMENSIONS: Length along lesser curvature 3.0 cm. Length along greater curvature 6.0 cm. Circumference of distal gastric margin 11.0 cm (painted). Circumference of proximal gastric margin 5.5 cm. Length of tubular esophagus if present 12.0 cm. Width of tubular esophagus if present 3.5 cm. Circumference of proximal esophageal margin 4.0 cm. defect in proximal esophageal margin due to piece taken for. tissue banking). TUMOR: - tumour is located at gastro-esophageal junction, with approximately 50% of the mass in the esophagus and 50% in the. stomach. - CONFIGURATION: exophytic, ulcerative, and non-circumferential. DIMENSIONS: Diameters 3.4 x 1.8 cm (measured fresh). Depth 0.7 cm (measured fixed, into muscularis propria, does not reach adventitia grossly). - DESCRIPTIVE CHARACTERISTICS: solid, exophytic growth with ulcerated surface, homogenously white on cut section. - PERFORATION: No. - DISTANCE FROM MARGINS: - PROXIMAL 8.5 cm (measured fixed). - DISTAL. 1.2 cm (measured fresh). - RADIAL. 0.3 cm (non-peritonealized soft tissue margin closest to deepest tumor penetration, adventitia painted. with AgNO3 posterior to tumour). ESTIMATED DEPTH OF INVASION: into muscularis propria. LESIONS IN NONCANCEROUS STOMACH: none. LYMPH NODES: none (lymph nodes submitted as separate parts). Sections submitted as follows: 6A-E. Distal gastric resection margin in toto, en face (frozen sections). 6F. Proximal esophageal resection margin, en face. 6G. Section of grossly normal esophagus. 6H. Section of grossly normal stomach. 6I. Full-thickness section of esophagus immediately proximal to tumour. 6J-Q. Tumour in toto, serially-sectioned perpendicular to long axis of esophagus, superior to inferior. 6R. Full-thickness section of stomach immediately distal to tumour. 7. The requisition is labeled with the patient's name and `paraesophageal. The container matches the requisition. The specimen consists of three unoriented, tan pieces of fibrofatty tissue measuring 1.0 x 0.7 x 0.3 cm in aggregate. These are submitted in toto in one block, 7A. 8. The requisition is labeled with the patient's name and " final esophageal margin`. The container matches the. requisition. The specimen consists of one unoriented ring of esophageal tissue stapled circumferentially at one end. The. specimen measures 2.0 x 1.4 x 0.3 cm. The lumen diameter measures 1.0 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto en. face in one block, 8A. Quick Section Diagnosis. 6. Esophagus and proximal stomach: Gastric margin: negative for carcinoma.
