patient_filename: TCGA-L5-A88Z.9B690B5D-2318-4A33-B49B-94CBC5085670
text: OPER DATE: REQ DOC: PROCEDURE: year-old female with squamous cell esophageal cancer. Operative procedure: THE transhiatal esophagectomy jejunostomy. PROCEDURE: 1. "Esophageal margin closed end is distal, opened end proximal" A 1.7 x 1.4. x 0.7 cm segment of pink-red esophagus with staple line at one end. 1A. Proximal end. Frozen section control. 1A. Remainder of specimen. (2 cassettes,. 2. "Thoracic esophagus" Received fresh in a medium container is a segment of. esophagus (6.5 cm in length and averages 3.0 cm in circumference) and an. attached portion of stomach that is 5.0 x 4.0 cm. The serosa of the esophagus. is grey-brown and fibrous with a portion of stomach is predominantly surfaced. by yellow glistening adipose tissue. There is e 2.5 x 2.0 cm tan-brown. centrally ulcerated mass with rotled borders that is 2.3 cm from the proximel. margin, 2.0 cm from the GE junction and occupies approximately 95% of the. circumference of the esophagus. Sectioning through the mass reveals it to be. approximately 0.8 cm thick and grossly abut but not extend through the. muscularis propria. Located 1.5 cm proximal to the aforementioned mass is. a. 0.8 cm in greatest dimension tan nodule that upon sectioning has a tan-white. solid cut surface and grossly abuts the muscularis propria. The GE junction. and the remaining mucosa is tan and unremarkable with a grey-white area just. distal to the first described mass. The GE junction is grossly unremarkable. The mucosa of the stomach is tan, normally folded and grossly unremarkable. Examination of the attached adipose tissue reveals eight probable Lymph nodes. that range from 0.5 up to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. The largest possible. node is firm and has tan-white, solid cut surfaces. 2A.-E Mass entirely submitted. 2F. Second described nodule. 2G. Representative section of stomach and distal margin. 2M. Four tymph nodes in their entirety,. 21. Three lymph nodes in their entirety. 2J. One lymph node bisected. (10 cassettes,. FROZEN SECTION REPORT: 1A. Ulcer and inflammation. Negative for carcinoma. PREVIOUS DIAGNOSIS INQUIRY. REPORT DATF: 3. PATIENT NBR: SEX: F. BIRTHDATE: ADM DATE: OPER DATE: REQ DOC: Permanent sections confirm frozen section report. PROCEDURE: ESOPHAGEAL, CARDIAC AND GASTROESOPHAGEAL JUNCTION CARCINOMA: Type of carcinoma: Squamous cell carcinoma. Depth of invasion: Submucosa. Number of positive Lymph nodes: 2/8. Extranodal metastasis: Unknown. Specify site: Pattern of invasion: Expansile. Esoph瓣geal and gastric resection margins involved: No. Deep resection margin involved: No. TNM classification: T1 N1 MX. PROCEDURE: 1.&2. Esophagus and stomach, transhiatal esophagectomy: Invasive squamous cell. carcinoma extending to submucosa. Angiolymphatic invasion identified. Two of. eight lymph nodes positive for metastatic squamous cell carcinoma. Surgical. margins negative. Please see template. 1,. the signing staff pathologist, have personally. examined and interpreted the slides from this case. Code:
