patient_filename: TCGA-G3-A7M6.BE9902BC-2818-4A37-AF40-768208EA15B9
text: CONFIDENTIAL. Demographics (for. verification purposes). Date of Birth. Collected Date/Time. Received Date/Time. Specimen Description. Segment 7 of liver. Clinical Information. Chronic hepatitis C infection post blood transfusion ? causing hepatocellular Ca. Diagnosis. Liver, Segment 7, Resection: Hepatocellular carcinoma, Grade III. Well clear from resection margins. Background of portal and focal lobular chronic inflammation. consistent with grade II, stage II HCV chronic hepatitis. Verified: Synoptic Report. A: Liver, Resection, Macroscopic. Specimen: Liver. PROCEDURE: Partial hepatectomy. Minor hepatectomy (less than 3 segments). TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 2.5 cm. Additional dimensions. 2.5 x 2.3 cm. TUMOR FOCALITY: Solitary (specify location) : Segment 7. A: Liver, Resection, Microscopic. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GIII: Poorly differentiated. TUMOR EXTENSION (select all that apply) : Tumor confined to liver. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) : pT1: Solitary cumor with no vascular invasion. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) : pNX: Cannot be assessed. DISTANT METASTASIS (pM) : pMX: Cannot be assessed. MARGINS: Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: mm. Specify margin: parenchymal. Bile duct margin cannot be assessed. VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V): Absent. PADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Hepatitis (specify type) : Hep C. Gross Description. Received is a single specimen container The requisition and specimen container are. labelled with the patient's name,. The cassette and. are. labelled with the Surgical Number. The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin and labeled as. segment 7 of liver. The specimen consists of a 24.7 g portion of liver, disc shaped,. measuring 6.5 x 6 cm with a maximum thickness of 3 cm. The capsular surface has a. plaque-like bulge approximately 2.5 cm in diameter, which on further sectioning, reveals. a rounded pale brown tumorous nodule. This has a somewhat lobulated architecture. and. measures 2.3 x 2.5 x 2.5 cm. The resection surface of the tissue is painted blue. The. tumor lies grossly within 0.7 cm of a resection surface. Representative sections. including the resection are submitted in 10 cassettes. Microscopic Description. Microscopy shows a multinodular hepatocellular carcinoma, the tumor growing in confluent. compact sheets as well areas of trabeculae. They are polygonal shaped, show moderate. nuclear pleomorphism and in the more solid areas show prominent mitotic activity. There. is also a mild inflammatory with neutrophils and focal lymphocytes extending into the. carcinoma. There is a central area of degeneration, but no evidence of direct vascular. invasion can be identified. Surrounding hepatic parenchyma shows mild to moderate chronic. inflammation in portal tracts with focal degeneration of the interface (piecemeal. necrosis) . There is mild expansion of portal tracts and focal portal portal fibrous septa. in a pattern consistent with Stage II fibrosis. Focal lobular lymphocytic inflammation is. consistent with Grade II inflammation. Encounter Number. Patient Location.
