patient_filename: TCGA-BC-A112.284ECD8D-E19C-4042-9C8E-EAA003D2C69D
text: Diagnosis: A: Liver, segment 4, capsular lesion, biopsy. - Bile duct hamartoma. - benign tumor. B: Liver, segments 5-8, partial hepatectomy. - Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated (see comment). - Size: three nodules, 1.5, 8, and 11 cm in greatest dimension. - Margins: negative, carcinoma is 1.7 cm from the surgical margin of resection. - No lymphovascular space invasion or perineural invasion identified. - Foreign body giant cell reaction to foreign material and foreign material within vessels consistent with. history of embolization. - Uninvolved liver with non-specific mild lymphocytic portal infiltrate, minimal steatosis, and no fibrosis. identified. - Gross: vascular stent identified. AJCC stage: pT3. pNx. pMx. Note: This staging information is based on this pathologic specimen and may be incomplete. A. comprehensive review of all available information is recommended to determine final staging. Comment: Immunohistochemistry is performed on a representative section of carcinoma (B1). The carcinoma is. moderately to strongly positive for HepPar-1 in a subset, positive for CK7 in a subset, and negative for. CK20 and PSA, with appropriate positive control slides. Dr. agrees (intradepartmental consultation). Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis: Frozen section is requested by Dr. FSA1: Liver, segment 4, capsular lesion, biopsy. - Fibrosis and chronic inflammation. - No tumor seen. - Dr. concurs. Frozen Section Pathologist: Clinical History: with likely HCC. Gross Description: Specimen A is received fresh for frozen section and is a 10 x 4 x 3 cm red/tan soft tissue fragment which. was frozen as FSA1. Specimen B is received in a formalin-filled container labeled "liver segments 5, 8, stitch = do not mark. margin upper section" and is a 740 gram, 15.5 x 14.8 x 10.5 cm partial hepatectomy specimen. There is one. roughened cauterized surface, which is the surgical resection surface. This surface is entirely. inked blue. At the periphery, there is a 9.3 x 4.0 cm area of exposed golden brown liver parenchyma. There. is a portion of the liver tacked down to this surface with suture materia. There is additionally suture. material in the center of this exposed parenchyma. This is believed to be the surface referenced on the. specimen container as "do not mark margin upper section". The capsular surface is red/tan, subtly mottled with hemorrhage and remarkable for a 10 x 7.5 cm area of. subcapsular firmness. This does not appear to be a contiguous mass. Sectioning exhibits golden brown liver. parenchyma. The liver parenchyma is remarkable for at least three intraparenchymal lesions, 8 x 5 x 3. mm, 1.5 x 0.8 x 0.8 cm, and approximately 11 x 7 x 6.5 cm. These intraparenchymal lesions are each firm,. white and have well-defined to scalloped borders. The largest lesion has some areas of erythema and. hemorrhage scattered throughout. The largest lesion causes the capsular disruption noted previously. The largest lesion has a lobulated shape and is believed to cause all of the capsular distortions. The two. smaller lesions are well within the parenchyma and not near the capsule. The smallest lesion is 4.3 cm to. the closest blue inked margin, the mid sized lesion is 4.8 cm to the closest blue inked margin and the largest. lesion is 2.1 cm to the closest blue inked margin. There are no other abnormalities readily identified within. the liver parenchyma. There is a wire mesh stent present within some of the vasculature of the liver. Sections are submitted per the block summary. Block Summary: B1 - Largest mass, capsular disruption. B2 - Perpendicular section of largest mass to blue inked margin. B3 - Largest mass and adjacent normal liver parenchyma. B4 - Additional section from largest mass. B5 - Smallest mass entirely submitted. B6 - Representative mid sized mass. B7 - Normal liver. Tumor and normal was given to tissue procurement. Light Microscopy: Light microscopic examination performed by Dr.. Some of the immunohistochemical reagents used in this case may be classified as analyte specific reagents. (ASR). These were developed and have performance characteristics determined by the. These reagents have not been cleared or approved. by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval. is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational. or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement. Amendments of 1988 (CLIA-88) as qualified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing. Attending Pathologist: I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have. rendered the above diagnosis(es).
