patient_filename: TCGA-BC-4073.1C53BF2E-0AA8-477F-8281-63455E0D36E2
text: Number : Completed: Diagnosis: A: Lymph node, portal, excision. - No metastatic carcinoma identified in one lymph node. (0/1). - Intraoperative diagnosis confirmed. B: Liver, left lobe, Segments 1-4, partial hepatectomy. Tumor histologic type: Hepatocellular carcinoma. Histologic grade (Edmonson III Steiner classification) : Grade 3-4 out of 4 (moderately to poorly differentiated). Tumor size, focality and extent: Multiple tumor nodules. ranging from 0.5 cm to 3.5 cm in diameter are present. throughout the specimen, comprising approximately 50% of. the overall specimen volume; overall tumor size more than. 5.0 cm. Necrosis: Present; approximately 40 of the total tumor. volume is necrotic (status post radiofrequency ablation). Pattern of growth: Solid and trabecular growth patterns. Venous invasion: Extensively present; tumor thrombus. present in large portal vein branch at resection margin and. extensive microscopic intravascular tumor foci throughout. the specimen. Perforation of peritoneum: Not identified. Surgical margins : Positive; hepatocellular carcinoma. present in multiple portal vein branches (grossly and. microscopically) at the resection. margin (slides B11, B13). Non-neoplastic liver: - Patchy parenchymal iron deposition. (1-2+) by iron stain. - Moderate fibrosis (stage 2-3) but no obvious cirrhosis. seen by Trichrome stain. - Moderate mixed micro- and macrovesicular steatosis. involving approximately 10% of the total liver volume. Regional lymph nodes: None received with this specimen (see. also portal lymph node above, specimen A). AJCC Stage: pT3 pNO pMx. Note: This staging information is based on this pathologic. specimen and may be incomplete. A comprehensive review of. all available information is recommended. to determine final staging. C: Gallbladder, cholecystectomy. - Chronic cholecystitis with cholelithiasis. Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis: An intraoperative consultation was requested by Dr. FSA1: "Portal lymph node, " excision. - No tumor seen. Frozen Section Pathologist: Clinical History: left hepatic lobe lesions (Segments 2 and 3). . The patient. has a history of right lobe HCC. Status post radiofrequency. ablation. The patient also has questionable history of. hemochromatosis. Gross Description: Received are three appropriately labeled containers. Container A is additionally labeled "portal lymph node." It. holds a 1.7 X 1.2 X 0.5 cm red/tan soft tissue fragment. BLOCK: FSB1 - Frozen section remnant, entirely. submitted. B1-B2 - - Remainder of specimen, entirely. submitted. Specimen C was additionally labeled "segment 5 and 6,. liver". The specimen consists of a partial hepatectomy that. weighs 400 grams and measures 12.0 X 10.0 X 4.0 cm. The. external surface is tan/brown and has multiple variable. sized nodules that measure up to 4.5 cm. In addition, a. central focus of cavitation is noted that measures 3.0 x. 3.0. cm across and 2.8 cm in depth, which is consistent with a. possible previous biopsy. The area of resection is inked. black prior to sectioning. The specimen is sequentially. sectioned at 1.5 cm thick cross sections. On cut section,. the nodules are tan/gray, well circumscribed, and have. multifocal patchy areas of pale yellow softening. The. closest nodule extends to within 2.0 cm of the inked. surgical margin of resection. Elsewhere, the parenchyma is. tan/brown and has a lobular appearance. Block Summary: C1 - Representative section of nodule closest to. surgical margin. C2 - Representative additional sections of surgical. margin. C3 - Representative section of tumor and unremarkable. parenchyma. C4 - Representative section of tumor nodule with pale. yellow discoloration. Specimen D is received in one appropriately labeled. container, additionally labeled "porta hepatis mass". The. specimen consists of a 5.6 X 3.8 X 2.2 cm unoriented. tan/brown soft tissue fragment. The entire outer surface of. the specimen is inked blue. The specimen is serially. sectioned and the cut surface reveals a tan/white-. circumscribed nodule with central softening and. hemorrhage, consistent with necrosis. The mass occupies the. entire specimen. Representative sections are submitted in. cassettes D1-D3. Specimen E is additionally labeled "segment 3 liver. biopsy". One candidate lymph node was identified. that measures 1.2 X 1.0 X 0.5 cm. It is submitted as FSA1. The remainder of fibroadipose tissue is submitted as A1,. Container B: Specimen Type: lobectomy (Segments 1-4). Specimen Weight: 700 grams. Measurement 15 X 13 X 6.5 cm; There is a roughened surface. marked with a long suture. This was inked black and. represents the. medial margin of the partial hepatectomy specimen. There is. a second cut surface which is smooth and is inked blue. No. designatation of surgical margins was included with the. specimen. Mass: There are multiple soft-firm tan, white nodules. diffusely spread throughout the lateral half of the. specimen. Tumor is estimated to involve 60%. of liver parenchyma. Diameter of nodules ranges from 0.5-. 3.5 cm. Tumor is. located 0.5 cm from blue inked margin and 1.5 cm from black. inked margin. No. discrete nodules are present in the medial half of the. specimen (near the black. inked margin), but there appears to be involvement by tumor. of the vascular. spaces in this region. Adjacent liver tissue: The remainder of liver parenchyma. appears normal. No fibrosis is evident. Capsule: appears thickened and is nodular. Major portal vein/ hepatic vein: gross evidence of vascular. invasion (major portal vein and other smaller vascular. spaces in the medial half of the. specimen) is present. Gallbladder: submitted as Specimen C. Block summary: B1-B2 - - portal triad vascular margins. B3 - portal vein with black inked margin. B4 - tumor with blue inked margin. B5-B6 - - representative sections of tumor. B7 - tumor with capsule. B8 - tumor with adjacent uninvolved liver parenchyma. B9 - tumor with involvement of vasculature. B10-B13 - - representative sections of black inked margin, en. face. B14 - uninvolved liver parenchyma. Container C: Previously opened: no. Measurements: 7.5 X 3.0 X 1.6 cm. External surface: pink/tan with a roughened hepatic surface. Wall thickness: 2-4 mm. Mucosa: red and granular with adherent black granular. material and multiple firm. black stones. Stones present: measuring from 2 to 6 mm; black/tan and. firm and angulated. Other comments: none. Block # : C1. Grossing Pathologist: Light Microscopy : Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr.
