patient_filename: TCGA-2Y-A9HA.C07BBEDC-59CE-41B9-9D47-EDFD8AEB26B9
text: Final Diagnosis. A. LIVER, LIVER SEGMENT 6, SEGMENTAL RESECTION: Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated. Tumor size: 1.7 cm. Margin of resection is free of tumor (tumor is at least 8 mm away from the inked,. cauterized deep margin of resection). Uninvolved liver with chronic hepatitis, mildly active with transition to cirrhosis (modified. ISHAK stage 3 of 4), compatible with hepatitis C. See Key Pathological Findings. B. LIVER, LIVER SEGMENT 8, SEGMENTECTOMY: Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated. Tumor size: 1.5 x 1.4 x 1.3 cm. Margin of resection: see part C. See Key Pathological Findings. C. LIVER, SEGMENT 8 NEW MARGIN, RESECTION: Liver with chronic hepatitis, mildly active with transition to cirrhosis (modified. ISHAK stage 3 of 4), compatible with hepatitis C, negative for carcinoma. the attending pathologist, personally reviewed all. slides and / or materials and rendered the final diagnosis. Electronically. Ancillary Studies. Special stains Trichrome, Reticulin, Iron, and PAS-D were performed with adequate controls on block. A8 and were reviewed. Key Pathological Findings. A: Liver, Resection. Specimen: Liver. PROCEDURE: Partial hepatectomy. Minor hepatectomy (less than 3 segments). TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 1.7 cm. TUMOR FOCALITY: Multiple (specify location): segment 6 and segment 8. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GII: Moderately differentiated. TUMOR EXTENSION (select all that apply): Tumor confined to liver. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT): pT2: Solitary tumor with vascular invasion or multiple tumors none more than 5 cm. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN): pNX: Cannot be assessed. DISTANT METASTASIS (pM): pMX: Cannot be assessed. MARGINS: Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 8 mm. VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V): Absent. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Hepatocellular dysplasia. Cirrhosis/fibrosis. Hepatitis (specify type): Hepatitis C. Specimen(s) Received. A. LIVER SEGMENT 6. B. LIVER SEGMENT 8. C. LIVER SEGMENT 8 NEW MARGIN. Clinical History. LIVER CANCER. Preoperative Diagnosis. Liver cancer. Gross Description. A. The specimen is received fresh, labeled "liver segment 6" and consists of an unoriented,. resected segment of liver, 65.5 g, and 6.9 x 6.0 x 4.5 cm. The capsule is intact and pitted. No lesion. is grossly seen. The deep margin is cauterized and inked blue. The cut surfaces exhibit a golden. yellow, circumscribed, circular, spongy mass (1.7 cm diameter) which is 1 cm from deep margin and. does not involve the capsule. The lesion does not grossly involve vasculature. Necrosis (5%) is. noted, with no hemorrhage identified. Normal liver parenchyma is coarsely lobulated and congested. No satellite lesions are noted. Representative sections are submitted in A1-A8 as labeled: A1: Mirror image section of liver lesion for Tissue Procurement. Laboratory. A2-A3: Liver lesion nearest deep margin. A4: Liver lesion with vasculature. A5-A6: Liver lesion with necrosis. A7: Tumor random. A8: Normal liver parenchyma. The tissue is submitted for Tissue Procurement Laboratory. B. The specimen is received fresh, labeled "liver segment 8" and consists of an unoriented,. ovoid, resected segment of liver, 10.1 g, 3.7 x 2.8 cm, excised to a depth of 2 cm. The capsule is. intact, smooth and glistening. The margin of resection is inked blue. The cut surfaces exhibit a pale. gray-tan, solid, circumscribed, intraparenchymal lesion, 1.5 x 1.3 X 1.4 cm. The lesion is 3 mm deep. from capsule and extends to the deep margin. Punctate necrosis, indicative of biopsy site is noted,. with no hemormhage identified. The remaining parenchyma is normal, with no satellite lesion noted. Representative sections, including the entire lesion are submitted in B1-B5 as labeled: B1-B2: Liver lesion nearest deep margin. B3-84: Liver lesion with potential biopsy site. B5: Normal liver parenchyma. The specimen is not submitted for Tissue Procurement Laboratory. C. The specimen is received fresh, labeled "liver segment 8 new margin; ink-true margin" and. consists of an oriented, irregular resected liver fragment, 1.6 g, 2.8 x 2.1 cm, excised to a depth of 1.1. cm. The specimen is markedly cauterized and the deep margin is re-inked blue. A capsule is not. identified. The cut surfaces exhibit smooth, coarsely lobulated, tan-red parenchyma, with no lesion. grossly seen. Necrosis is not identified. The specimen is submitted entirely in C1-C3. The specimen is not submitted for Tissue Procurement Laboratory.
