patient_filename: TCGA-BC-A10T.D8103C33-F303-4D97-81AF-CC3D06E79285
text: Diagnosis: A: Gallbladder, removal. - No significant pathologic abnormality. B: Liver, segment II, excisional biopsy. - Well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma (1.8 cm), margins clear. C: Right adrenal gland, removal. - No significant pathologic abnormality. D: Liver, partial resection. - Well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinome (10.5 cm in greatest dimension), medial margin focally. involved. - No lymphovascular space invasion identified. - Minimal/mild steatosis and nonspecific portal hepatitis. - No cirrhosis identified. Comment: None. Clinical History: The patient undergoes a liver resection. Gross Description: Received are four appropriately containers. Container A is additionally labeled "gallbladder.". Previously opened: yes. Measurements: 10.0 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm. External surface: dark green and smooth. Wall thickness: 0.2 cm. Mucosa: dark green and velvety. Stones present: absent. Other comments: none. Block #: A1, representative sections. Container B is additionally labeled "segment II, excisional biopsy." The specimen consists of a yellow/tan. ovoid rubbery liver tissue fragment measuring 2.2 x 1.7 x 1.6 cm. A 1.0 x 1.0 cm white area is noted on the. only smooth surface. Serial sectioning reveals a well circumscribed white/pink soft nodule measuring 1.8 x. 1.5 x 1.0 cm. The irregular margins are inked black and the specimen is serially sectioned. (Blocks B1-B4. Container C is additionally labeled "right adrenal." The specimen consists of an adrenal gland with. surrounding adipose tissue all together measuring 4.5 x 3.8 x 1.3 cm. Serial sectioning reveals a. yellow/orange adrenal gland measuring 4.0 x 2.0 x 0.6 cm. (Blocks C1-C6,. Container D is additionally labeled "liver, suture medial margin." The specimen consists of a segment of. liver measuring 21.0 x 14.0 x 11.0 cm and weighing 1200 grams. The external surface is tan, wrinkled with. a bosselated appearance and some slightly pale areas noted. Serial sectioning reveals one white well. circumscribed nodule measuring 10.5 x 10.0 x 8.5 cm. The cut surface of the nodule is yellow/red,. consistent with necrosis and hemorrhage. The nodule appears friable and appears to extend to or very close. to the medial margin. The remaining cut surface is homogeneous brown with dilated vessels. A suture is. noted indicating medial and the entire margin is inked black. (Blocks D1-D9, representative sections). D1-D3 - tumor and closest margin. D4,D5 - representative section of tumor. D6,D7 - tumor and capsule. D8,D9 - representative section of uninvolved liver. D10 - tumor and closest margin. Light Microscopy: Light microscopic examination is performed. Sections of the tumor reveal large cells with abundant pink cytoplasm. A moderate degree of cytologic. atypia is observed. The tumor cells are arranged in trabeculae, many of which are greater than three cell. layers. Focal necrosis is observed, and occasional mitotic figures are seen. Lymphovascular space invasion. is not identified. The adjacent liver does not show cirrhosis. There is minimal steatosis and a patchy, mild,. chronic inflammatory infiltrate in some portal areas. I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have rendered the above. diagnosis(es).
