patient_filename: TCGA-G3-AAV5.A578503A-47F1-4DD4-B3E8-C1642EF89190
text: CONFIDENTIAL. Demographics (for. verification purposes). Date of Birth: Sex: M. Collected Date/Time. Received Date/Time. Specimen Description. A. Gallbladder. B. Right liver. Clinical Information. Infectious patient: No. Immunocompromised: No. History of neoplasm: Yes. Liver mass. Diagnosis. A. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy: - No evidence of malignancy. - Lymph nodes show reactive changes, no evidence of malignancy. B. Liver, right partial hepatectomy: - Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated, see synoptic report. Prominent vascular invasion. - Necrosis involving less than 10% of tumor. Verified: Synoptic Report. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GII: Moderately differentiated. TUMOR EXTENSION (select all that apply) : Tumor confined to liver. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) : pT2: Solitary tumor with vascular invasion or multiple tumors none more than 5 cm. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) : pNX: Cannot be assessed. DISTANT METASTASIS (pM) : pMX: Cannot be assessed. MARGINS: Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V) : Present. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Cirrhosis/fibrosis. Gross Description. Received are specimen containers A to B. All requisitions and specimen containers are. labelled with the patient's name. The cassettes and. identifiers. are labelled with the Surgical. A. Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated "A. Gallbladder". The. specimen consists of a bile stained intact gallbladder which measures 9.5 x 3.5 x 3.0 cm. The serosal surface is smooth and glistening. Opening the gallbladder reveals it to be. filled with green bile. No calculi are found in the gallbladder or in the specimen. container. The mucosal surface is green, velvety and the gallbladder wall averages 0.3. cm in thickness. The cystic duct is patent. Adjacent to the cystic duct is a possible. lymph node measuring 2.5 cm in greatest dimension. Three representative sections of. gallbladder submitted in cassette A1. The possible lymph node, bisected, submitted in. toto in A2. Upon handling the specimen, it fragmented into three pieces. B. Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated "B. Right liver". The. specimen consists of a 1.4 kg portion of liver which measures 30.0 x 15.0 x 10.0 cm. A. portion of the liver capsule is lobulated which corresponds to a tan lobulated mass. within the liver parenchyma. There are irregular areas of hemorrhage spread throughout. the mass. The mass measures approximately 17.5 x 10.0 x 10.0 cm. Adjacent to the mass. are separate nodules, however it is difficult to ascertain whether these nodules are. truly separate or lobules which connect to the main mass. These nodules range from 0.2. cm up to 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. The liver parenchyma is fibrotic, creating a. nodular appearance. The resection margin of the specimen has been inked blue. The. separate described nodules comes within 1.5 cm of the resection margin. The main mass. comes within 4.5 cm of the blue margin. Sections of the specimen are as follows: B1- - four sections of the large mass and its relationship to the liver capsule. B5. - edge of the large mass with one of the separate described nodules in the liver. parenchyma. B6. - further section of separate described nodules within the fibrotic liver. parenchyma. Sectioning. revealed these nodules come within 0.5 cm of the blue. painted resection margin. B7. - section of a query vessel filled with granular material at the blue painted. resection margin. B8. - further section of blue painted resection margin in an area where the liver. parenchyma. becomes markedly fibrotic. B9. - section of the nodules with surrounding liver parenchyma. Microscopic Description. A. Sections show congested the gallbladder, no evidence of malignancy. The cystic. node shows lipogranulomas, no evidence of malignancy. B. Sections show a hepatocellular neoplasm with a solid and trabecular growth. pattern, as well as confluent areas of necrosis, involving less than 10% of the tumor. The tumor cells show a high degree of atypia, with a high nuclear cytoplasmic ratio,. prominent nucleoli and frequent mitoses. There is prominent vascular invasion. The. adjacent liver parenchyma shows cirrhosis. tumor nodules are also present in surrounding. liver parenchyma. The painted hepatic margins are negative for umor.Embolization. material is seen in a few blood vessels. Encounter Number. Patient Location.
