patient_filename: TCGA-FV-A4ZP.B6B41E65-9EFD-4F60-A4F0-68270AC39D15
text: INFORMATION. RMATION. SPECIMEN INFORMATION. Acct / Reg #: PHOTOMICROGRAPHIS. DIAGNOSIS. DIAGNOSIS: A. Soft tissue (abdominal nodule), blopsy: Benign soft tissue with fat necrosis and fibrosis. B. Liver (left lobe), wedge resection: Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated, with vascular Invasion. and extension to the inked surgical excision margin. C. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy: Benign gallbladder with mild chronic cholecystitis; cholelithiasis. D. Liver (additional left lobe), blopsies: Hepatocellular carcinoma with vascular Invasion; tumor appears to extend to the cauterized edges of the biopsy. here reviewed the liver sections and concurs with the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. The histomorphology and the immunostains support e diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma in spite of the negative Hepar stain. The reason for the. negative stain is not evident as both the internal and external controls stained appropriately. Melanoma and adrenal cortical carcinoma are the two other. diagnostic considerations. Melanoma is excluded by the negative Melan-A and S-100; adrenal cortical carcinoma is excluded by the constellation of. morphology and immunostaining results. CLINICAL INF FORMA TION. CLINICAL HISTORY: Preoperative Diagnosie: Hepatocellular carcinoma. Postoperative Diagnosis: Symptoms/Radiologic Findings: SPECIMENS: A. Abdominal nodule, rule out METS. B. Left liver lobe. C. Gallbladder. D. Additional left lobe liver. SPECIMEN DATA. GROSS DESCRIPTION: A. The first container A is labeled A and abdominal nodule rule out METS and consists of a yellow-tan nodule measuring 1.0% 1.0 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is bisected. One-half of the specimen was examined at the time of surgery. The specimen is subsequently entirely submitted in. cassettes. no as follows: frozen section-1; remainder of specimen-2. B. The second container B is labeled. and left lobe fiver and consists of a portion of liver measuring 15.0: x 11.0 x 7.0 cm and weighs 393. grams. The surface is gray to red-tan with areas of hemorrhagic adhesions. There are multiple gray-tan nodules measuring from 1.0x 1.0 x 0.7 cm to. 11.0 x 10.0 x 2.0 cm. The nodules appear to involve approximately 90% of the liver parenchyma. The surgical resected margin has been inked. There. are surgical clips present at the surgical margin surrounding are two possible ducts. One of the possible duct appears to have tumor protruding through. the lumen and is visible at the surgical margin. On sectioning the cut surface is paie tan fleshy multilobular with areas of hemormhage. There is also an. ares of fibrous bands surrounding yellow-tan firm tissue. The mass appears focally less than 0.1 cm from the resected margin in the previously. mentioned area of possible duct. There is a rim of normal liver parenchyma that is yellow to brown-tan. Attached to one edge of the liver is a portion of. Microscopie image and dingrass, if presect, are a symbolic representation of the key findiags of this case. The site(s) designated on the orgae diagrasm are based upou clinical informatios provided and do - necessarily. indicate the specific location from where the biopry was takea The image and diagrama are not icsended to replace & complete reading of the final report. REPORT CON TINUED ON NEXT PAGE. Pace: 1 of 2. PATIENT INFORMATION. SPECIMEN INFORMATION. fibroadipose tissue that is yellow-tan hemonhagic measuring 6.0 x 2.0. x 1.0 cm. On sectioning there is a vessel, 2.0 cm in length and 0.3 cm in. diameter that appears to show tumor within the lumen. Representative sections were taken for genomic studies and placed in orange cassettes labeled. A-D, Also recaived are two cassettes, one yellow and one green, labeled. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes 100807. Pas follows: perpendicular section from margin in relationship to mass from possible ducts-1 and 2; additional perpendicular sections from margin. in relationship to mass-. ; sections from vessel near the resected-8; submitted portion of vessel with tumor-10. C. The third container c is labeled n, C and galibladder and consists of an intact gallbladder measuring 7.0 x 3.0 x 2.0 cm. The surface is gray-. tan. to purpla-gray with adhesions. The gallbladder wall measures 0.2 cm. The fining is velvety and bile stained. There are calculi identified. Representative sections are submitted in a single cassette. D. The. fourth. container. o. is. D and additional left lobe liver and consista of three separate brown-tan fragments of tiver meesuring 1.0 x. 0.5. x. 0.5. cm. to. 2.0. x. 1.0. x. 0.5. cm. The surfaces shows marked cautery artifact. The two larger pieces have been bisected and the specimen is entirely. submitted in cassettes 11. follows: small fragment-1; second fragment bisected-2 third fragment bisected-3. INTRA-OPERATIVE CONSULTATION: FSA: 'Negative for malignancy. fibrous tissue, inflammation' per. MICROSCOPIC'EXAMINATION. Section A, labeled "abdominal nodule" shows an area of fat necrosis with fibrosis. No metastatic malignancy is identified. Sections of the wedge biopsy of the left lobe of the liver, specimen B, shows multiple expanse isle nodules consisting of cords, nests, and trabecular. structures of a large cell malignant neoplasm having the architectural and cytologic characteristics of hepatocellular carcinoma. The tumor celis have. large vesicular nuclei with prominent nucleoli, with scattered intranuclear cytoplasmic inclusions, and a moderate to large amount of pink, granular. cytoplasm. Scattered mitoses are easily identified and there are occasional bi and multinuclested tumor cells with bizzare giant nuclear forms. These. features are in sharp contrast to the adjacent normal liver. There is evidence of vascular invasion by the tumor. Tumor appears present at the inked. surgical margins. A battery of immunohistocherical stains shows the tumor cella staining with CAM5.2 and focally with cytokeratin 20. A CD10 is done. on blocks B3, 4, 7, and 8 and shows prominent staining of bile canal穩culi. A polycional CEA is uninterpretable as it is over stained. The tumor cella are. immuno negative with S100 pratein, Melan-A, cytokeratin 7, alpha-fetoprotein, and Hepar antigen. Control slides stained appropriately. Additionally,. a. reticulin stain performed on block 83 shows an absence of reticulin in the tumor, in contradistinction to its presence in the adjacent normal liver. Section c shows a gallbladder with mild chronic cholecystitis. There is no morphologic evidence of malignancy, either primary or metastatic. Sections from specimen D. labeled "additional left lobe of liver" disclosed nodules of hepatocellular carcinoma in a fibrous stroma. Iron stains show. stored iron. Trichrome stains highlight a number of thickened fibrous trabeculas coursing through the tumor. A reticulin stain shows a general lack of. reticulin within the tumor proper. Page: 2 of 2.
