patient_filename: TCGA-BC-A10X.671F5D97-36F3-40BA-9E28-1B65B21EF3D4
text: Diagnosis: A: Gallbladder, cholecystectomy. - Chronic cholecystitis with cholesterolosis. - Duplication cyst. B: Lymph node, right inferior mediastinum, biopsy. - No tumor identified in one lymph node (0/1). C: Liver, right lobe, partial hepatectomy. - Hepatocellular carcinom獺, grade 2 with superficial infiltration into the ventral surface of the diaphragm,. surgical margins free. - Tumor infiltrates wall of a large caliber vein with intraluminal tumor present. - Multiple small foci suspicious for lymphovascular space invasion. - Extensive geographic necrosis of tumor. D: Lymph node, right portal, removal. - No tumor identified in one lymph node (0/1). E: Lung, right lower lobe, superior segment, biopsy. Multiple intraparenchymal lymph nodes with anthracotic pigment and probable old fibrotic granulomas. F: Lung, face of right lower lobe, biopsy. - Markedly reactive mesothelial proliferation on parietal and visceral pleural surfaces consistent with. reaction to tumor infiltrating underlying diaphragm. G: Lymph node, left portal, removal. - No tumor identified in one lymph node (0/1). Comment: The mesothelial proliferation noted in specimen F is markedly reactive in cytologic appearance. It displays. a positive reaction to calretin, indicating its mesothelial origin. Dr. has reviewed the slides of the portions. of lung removed and concurs with the diagnostic opinion. The portion of gallbladder removed for frozen section (FSA1) represents a gallbladder duplication cyst. Duplication cysts are congenital malformations that can occur anywhere in the gastrointestinal tract and. only rarely occur in the gallbladder. Intraoperative Consultation: Frozen section is requested by Dr. FSA1: Gallbladder, removal. - Non-neoplastic gallbladder, defer final diagnosis to permanents. FSB1: Lymph node, right inferior mediastinum, biopsy. - Benign appearing lymph node. FSC1: Liver, right lobe, diaphragmatic margin, biopsy. - Diaphragmatic (inked green) surface appears free of carcinoma (probable mesothelial proliferation. present). Clinical History: The patient is with. na thho undergoes right lobe partial hepatectomy. Gross Description: Received are seven appropriately labeled containers. Container A is additionally labeled "gallbladder mass for frozen". Per the frozen section team the specimen. consisted of an 11 x 4 x 2.5 cm gallbladder, not previously opened, containing no stones with a pink serosal. surface. The cauterized hepatic surface is inked black. A 1.7 cm, well-circumscribed, white nodule is noted. at the gallbladder fundus, a portion of which is sampled in FSA1. The remainder of the gallbladder mucosa. is generally green/tan and velvety with occasional flecks of yellow noted on the surface. No lymph nodes. are identified. Additional sections of the fundic nodule are submitted in A1-A2 while sections of the. gallbladder mucosa at the fundus, neck and cystic duct are submitted in A3. Container B: Per the frozen section team the specimen consisted of a 2.0 cm lymph node which is bisected. Half of the specimen is submitted in FSA1 and the remainder in A1. Container C is additionally labeled "right lobectomy liver". The specimen consists of a 1050 g, 15 x 15. x. 15 cm partial hepatectomy specimen, portions of which have been sampled for frozen section and given to. Tissue Procurement. The margin of resection has been inked in black. The hepatic surface is generally. smooth and glistening with a 10.5 x 6.0 cm portion of adherent diaphragm and parietal pleura. Serial. sectioning reveals a 12 x 10 x 10 cm, fairly well-circumscribed, yellow/tan mass with large areas and. necrosis and hemorrhage noted. The mass has a vaguely nodular character along with occasional fibrous. septations noted. The mass appears to come within 0.3 cm from the inked surgical margin. The mass. appears to abut the capsule does not erode through it. The remaining hepatic parenchyma is red/brown,. smooth without fibrosis or nodularity noted. Representative sections are submitted as per the block. summary. C1 - normal liver. C2 - normal/tumor interface. C3,C4 - closest surgical margin. C5,C6 - tumor with adherent diaphragm. C7-C9 - additional sections of tumor. Container D is additionally labeled "right portal lymph node". It holds a 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm, roughly ovoid. lymph node with a tan homogenous cut surface. Bisected. D1 and D2. Container E is additionally labeled "superior segment right lower lobe". Within container E is a 3.5 x 1.5 x. 1.0 cm, roughly triangular portion of gray/purple soft tissue with a stapled edge. Two fairly well. circumscribed, variegated, white/red nodules are noted in the lung parenchyma measuring 0.4 and 0.3 cm in. greatest dimension. The specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted. E1 - portion of lung closest to stapled margin. E2,E3 - remaining specimen. Container F is additionally labeled "face of right lower lobe". Within container F is a 4.5 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm. irregular portion of purple/gray apparent lung with a 2 cm stapled edge and a 3.5 cm open edge. The pleural. surface is studded by multiple pale tan nodules measuring 0.6 cm in greatest dimension. The specimen is. entirely submitted in F1-F5 with the section closest to the stapled margin in F1. Container G is additionally labeled "left portal lymph node". It holds a 2 x 1 x 0.8 cm, single, irregularly-. shaped, black/tan soft tissue fragment. G1. Light Microscopy: Light microscopic examination is performed. Sections of the gallbladder show chronic cholecystitis with cholesterolosis. The cystic structure noted. adjacent to gallbladder lumen and examined by frozen section is grossly unconnected to the lumen of the. gallbladder and unlike the gallbladder mucosa is not stained with bile. It consists of a round cystic structure. lined by columnar epithelium and completely surrounded by a thick smooth muscle wall. The. lining mucosa in multiple foci concentrically around the lumen penetrates the wall in a Rokatansky-. Aschoff-like pattern. These features are consistent with a gallbladder duplication cyst. Sections of the liver. tumor show a moderately differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma with large numbers of PAS-positive. alpha-1 antitrypsin inclusions. Trichrome and reticulin stains demonstrate biliary fibrosis. in the adjacent parenchyma. The iron stain is non-contributory. Tumor infiltrates the inferior surface of the. diaphragm with some destruction and fibrosis of skeletal muscle of the diaphragm. However, the. diaphragm is not penetrated by tumor. The right lower lobe of the lung, on the immediately adjacent diaphormatic surface shows striking. mesothelial proliferation, but no tumor is identified. The three lymph nodes submitted show reactive hyperplasia but no evidence for metastatic hepatocellular. carcinoma. I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have rendered the above. diagnosis(es).
