patient_filename: TCGA-G3-A7M5.9441C376-F0CE-4A84-A9C0-5FB1917216F2
text: CONFIDENTIAL. Demographics (for. verification purposes). Date or birth: Collected Date/Time. Received Date/Time. Specimen Description. A: Gallbladder. B: Right lobe liver. Clinical Information. Large right lobe liver Ca on CT KUB 16 x 12 x 14 cm. Infectious patient:No. Immunocompromised: No. History of neoplasm: No. Diagnosis. A: Gallbladder. Chronic cholecystitis. Cholelithiasis. B. Liver, Right Lobe, Excision: Hepatocellular carcinoma, grade II. Portal vascular inflammation of embolization. Resections margins close. - Adjacent liver with non-specific portal triaditis. Verified: Synoptic Report. B: Liver, Resection, Macroscopic. Specimen. Liver. Gallbladder. PROCEDURE: Partial hepatectomy. Major hepatectomy (3 segments or more). TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 15. cm. Additional dimensions: 14.5 x 8.0 cm. TUMOR FOCALITY: Solitary (specify location). Right lobe. B: Liver, Resection, Microscopic. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GII: Moderately differentiated. TUMOR EXTENSION (select all that apply) : Tumor confined to liver. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) : pTl: Solitary tumor with no vascular invasion. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN): pNX: Cannot be assessed. MARGINS: Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 2. mm. Specify margin: parenchymal. Bile duct margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V): Absent. Gross Description. Received are specimen containers A to B All requisitions and specimen containers are. labelled with the patient's name,. The cassettes and. are. labelled with the Surgical Number. A: The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin and labeled. gallbladder. The specimen consists of a partly collapsed gallbladder measuring 9 cm from. fundus to resection margin by approximately 3 cm in transverse diameter. The outer. peritoneal surface is unremarkable. The lumen contains multiple faceted and mulberry-. shaped dark pigment stones up to 1 cm in diameter. The residual mucosa is unremarkable. with a green velvety appearance. The wall measures up to 0.1 cm in thickness. No cystic. duct lymph node is identified. Representative sections from the fundus, mid body, and. cystic duct resection margin are submitted in one cassette. B: The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin and labeled. right lobe of liver. The specimen consists of a resection specimen of liver tissue. weighing 1.570 kg. There is a blue suture attached to the inferior edge. The. anterolateral surface appears dusky and discolored with areas of pallor, possibly. capsular fibrosis, but without any obvious involvement by tumor. The diaphragmatic area. is unremarkable and the left retrohepatic peritoneal surface is unremarkable. There is a. resection margin along the medial aspect of the specimen without any obvious tumor at. this margin and this is painted blue. The lobe measures 19 cm from superior to inferior,. 18 cm from medial to lateral, and approximately 10 cm from the anterior surface to the. deep bare area. Transverse incisions into the liver lobe shows it to be expanded and. mostly replaced by a well circumscribed multinodular tumor that has a seminecrotic and. hemorrhagic cut surface with viable areas of tumor showing a pale grey to yellow green. color. The tumor itself has dimensions of 14.5 x 8 x 15 cm (photographs has been taken. of the transverse section showing the multilobulated tumor) There is no obvious. extension of the tumor into vascular structures grossly, but at the resection margin,. there is large duct or vascular channel that appears to have a granular material balling. up on its lining. This is also visible more distant from the hilar zone of this resection. specimen. Further sectioning shows this to extend to the hilar resection margin. This. appears to extend to the painted resection margin at the vascular hilum of the lobe. Adjacent liver does not show any significant nodularity to suggest underlying cirrhosis. Sections are taken as follows: B1-13. sections at hilum of lobe to illustrate interface between tumor and resection. margin and to. illustrate potential vascular invasion and vascular extension to resection. margin. B14-16. additional sections of tumor close to resection margin. B17-23. tumor in relationship to capsule. B24/25. tumor. B26-30. sections of surrounding liver parenchyma. Microscopic Description. A. Sections show gallbladder wall with minimal inflammation but focal areas with. Aschoff-Rokitansky sinuses and mild subserosal fibrosis consistent with mild chronic. cholecystitis. No atypia is present. B. The resection shows a hepatocellular carcinoma that has a somewhat lobulated. architecture forming large rounded nodules of tumor. The tumor cells show mild to. moderate nuclear atypia growing in broad sheets of cells, showing focal pseudoglandular. areas with accumulation of bile, as well as showing prominent fatty change. Prominent. areas of hemorrhage and degeneration are present in the central part of the tumor. The. HCC closely approaches the painted resection margin, but direct extension is not present,. with a clear margin that is focally as close as 3.0 and 2.0 mm in twa of the sections. In multiple areas the granular material appears to involve lareger vascular spaces, with. granulatomatous changes in the walls of veins related to intraluminal foreign material. consistent with pre-operative embolization. In smaller portal tracts this is clearly in. the portal venous system. No clear evidence of perineural or vascular invasion can be. identified. The adjacent liver parenchyma shows portal triaditis as well as areas of granulomatous. inflammation related to portal veins. The portal tracts are mildly expanded, but there. is no clear evidence of an underlying cirrhosis or chronic liver disease. Encounter Number. Patient Location.
