patient_filename: TCGA-G3-A6UC.08415C4C-C645-4911-BA53-6E562E562FD4
text: CONFIDENTIAL. Demographics (for. verification purposes). Sex: M. Collected Date/Tir. Received Date/Time. Specimen Description. A. Gallbladder at. B. Liver segment 6 at. Clinical Information. Cirrhosis secondary to ETOH with likely HCC. Diagnosis. A. Gallbladder: Cholelithiasis. B. Liver segment 6: Chronic hepatitis, mild. Cirrhosis, micronodular. Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated, solid variant,. 2.5 cms in the greast dimension, with metastases to the portal veins. and intrahepatic metastases. Tumor 0.3 cm away from the resection margin. Verified: Gross Description. Received are specimen containers A to B. All requisitions and specimen containers are. labelled with the patient's name,. The cassettes and AP identifiers are. labelled with the Surgical Number. A. Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated "A. Gallbladder". The. specimen consists of a congested intact gallbladder measuring 11.0 x 3.5 x 3.5 cm. The. serosal surface is smooth and glistening. Opening reveals the gallbladder to be filled. with green bile. Also found in the gallbladder are five black irregular calculi ranging. from 0.4 cm up to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. The mucosal surface is dark green, rough. and the gallbladder wall averages between 0.1 to 0.2 cm in thickness. Found at the neck. and near the cystic duct are two firm palpable nodules within the adipose tissue, the. first measuring 1.0 cm, the other 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. Sections are as follows: A1. - three sections of gallbladder. A2. - the smaller node bisected. A3. - the larger node bisected. B. Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated "Liver segment 6". The. specimen consists of a portion of liver weighing 50.8 g and measuring 6.5 x 5.0 x 2.5 cm. The liver capsule is nodular and the surgical resection margin has been inked blue. Sectioning reveals a green circumscribed mass measuring 2.5 x 2.3 x 2.5 cm. Adjacent. to. the green circumscribed mass is a hemorrhagic circumscribed mass measuring 1.0 x 1.0 x. 1.0 cm. The green mass comes within 0.3 cm of the blue painted surgical resection margin. and the hemorrhagic mass 0.1 cm to the blue painted surgical resection margin. The green. mass comes with less than 0.1 cm of the liver capsule and the hemorrhagic mass comes. within 0.7 cm of the liver capsule. Sections are as follows: B1. - section of the green mass and its relationship to the liver capsule. B2. - section of the green mass and its relationship to the blue painted surgical. resection margin. B3. - hemorrhagic mass with a portion of the adjacent green mass and the relationship. to the blue. painted surgical margin. B4. - further section of hemorrhagic mass and relationship to blue painted surgical. resection margin. Please note that upon sectioning of the hemorrhagic mass, it is found to have a. cut surface. which is granular and the substance easily pulls out of the. circumscribed area, query blood. vessel. B5. - representative section of liver parenchyma. Encounter Number. Patient Location.
