patient_filename: TCGA-UB-A7MD.DF3145A4-6311-4DCD-914F-3B3AABE4DAE7
text: (enter 1 per line): 1. bile duct-frozen (Order. Result Impression. Sex: Male. Soc. Sec. #: Locatio. Client: Physici. FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS. A. Lymph node, "bile duct," biopsy: No tumor in one lymph node (0/1). B. Liver, "tumor margin," biopsy: Cirrhotic liver, no tumor. C. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy: 1. Cholelithiasis and mild cholesterolosis. 2. No tumor in one lymph node (0/1). D. Liver, partial hepatectomy: 1. Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately to poorly differentiated, 5.3. cm, margins negative; see comment. 2. Micronodular cirrhosis consistent with clinical history of hepatitis. C virus and alcoholic liver disease. COMMENT: Liver Tumor, Including Intrahepatic Bile Duct, Synoptic Comment. - Tumor type: Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated. trabecular pattern, with foci of poorly differentiated pleomorphic. subtype (slide D2). - Histologic grade: Moderately to poorly differentiated. - Tumor size (maximum diameter of largest lesion) : 5.3 cm. - Tumor necrosis: Less than 30%. - Multifocality (more than one tumor separated by nontumorous liver. parenchyma) : Absent. - Estimated total tumor diameter of all HCC foci: 5.3 cm. Vascular invasion: Small vessel invasion, slide D3. No large vessel. invasion. - Hepatic capsule: No tumor in capsule. - Local extension of tumor: Confined to liver. - Hepatic surgical margins: Negative; tumor is 0.8 cm from medial. margin, grossly. - Non-neoplastic liver: Micronodular cirrhosis (confirmed by trichrome. stain) . - Steatosis: Mild. - Iron stain (in cirrhotic liver), scale 0-4+: 0. - Hepatocellular nodules (in cirrhotic liver) : None. - Lymph node status: Negative; total number of nodes examined: 2. 0/2) . - AJCC Stage: pT1Nx. has reviewed slides D3 and D5 and agrees with the. presence of small vessel invasion in the absence of large vessel. involvement. Specimen (s) Received. A: Bile duct (FS). B:Tumor margin (FS). C:Gallbladder. D:Liver, partial resection. Intraoperative Diagnosis. FS1 (A) Bile duct, lymph node, biopsy: No tumor, no carcinoma. (Dr. FS2 (B) Liver, biopsy: Cirrhotic liver with focal cautery. IOC1 (D) Right lobe liver, wedge resection: Margins grossly clear,. lesion 0.8 cm from the medial margin. Clinical History. OR Room and Phone # (frozen specimen : intraoperative consults only). The patient is. a. -year-old man with biopsy-proven hepatocellular. carcinoma (not reviewed at of the right liver lobe. Per Dr. the patient also has hepatitis C virus and alcoholic liver. disease. Recent imaging reveals a 5 x 4 cm segment 5/6 hepatic. hypervascular mass. The patient now undergoes open partial right. hepatectomy and cholecystectomy. Gross Description. The case is received in four parts, labeled with the patient's name and. medical record number. Part A is received fresh and additionally labeled "bile duct,' and. consists of a single, soft, red-tan, ovoid unoriented lymph node (2 x. 1.3 x 1 cm). The specimen is trisected, revealing soft red-tan. parenchyma without discrete mass or lesion. One-third of the specimen. is submitted for frozen section diagnosis 1, with the frozen section. remnant subsequently submitted in cassette A1. The remaining fresh. lymph node is submitted in cassette A2. Part B is received fresh and additionally labeled "margin-FS," and. consists of one, rubbery, rectangular fragment of deep red to brown firm. soft tissue (1 x 0.9 x 0.3 cm) . The specimen is entirely frozen for. frozen section diagnosis 2 with the cauterized surface embedded down. with the frozen section remnant submitted submitted in cassette B1. Part C is received fresh and additionally labeled "gallbladder, is and. consists of a single unoriented, intact gallbladder (8 cm x 2.5-3.8 cm. body-fundus, 0. cm wall thickness) The gallbladder is filled with. yellow-brown, viscid fluid and a 1.8 cm, yellow-brown, crystalline. stone. The mucosa is red-tan and granular. The hepatic surface is. pink-tan and roughened with brown-tan cautery artifact. A single. pink-tan lymph node (0.7 cm in greatest dimension) is identified in the. scant, attached yellow adipose tissue. The cystic duct margin is inked. blue, and submitted together with representative sections of the fundus,. body and lymph node. Part D is received fresh and additionally labeled "right liver lobe,". and consists of a portion of liver (6.5 cm from right to left x 5 cm. from anterior to posterior x 7 cm from superior to inferior). GROSS ABNORMALITIES: There is a 5.3 x 4.2 x 4 cm, yellow-tan,. vell-circumscribed but unencapsulated mass with yellow-tan to white,. lobular parenchyma. The mass is located 0.8 cm from the closest. approach to the medial margin, 1.1 cm from the closest approach to the. inferior and superior margins, 1.4 cm from the closest approach to the. lateral margin, and 2.4 cm from the closest approach to the deep margin. The mass approaches the hepatic capsule to within 0.1 cm. The. surrounding uninvolved hepatic parenchyma is tan-red and micronodular. (less than 0.1 cm to 0.1 cm). No lymph nodes are identified. ORIENTED BY: Surgeon's sutures: Long - superior, short - medial. INKING: - Superior: Blue. - Inferior: Green. - Posterior: Black. CASSETTES: Representative sections are submitted in cassettes as. follows: D1: Mass with closest approach to superior margin. D2: Mass with closest approach to inferior margin. D3-D5: Representative sections of mass. D6: Representative section of liver, away from mass, medial. D7: Representative section of liver, away from mass, lateral. D8: Mass with closest approach to deep margin. Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis. made by attending pathologist following review of all pathology slides. The attending pathologist has reviewed all dictations and preliminary. interpretations performed by any resident involved in the case and. performed all necessary edits before signing the final report. /Pathologist. Pathology PDF Report. Show images for Surgical Pathology. (enter 1 per line): 1. bile duct-frozen. Authorizing Provider Information. Result History. (enter 1 per line): 1. bile duct-frozen. This is NOT a Requisition. Requisition hyperlink below. (enter 1 per line): 1. bile duct-frozen. Pathology and Cytology. Show images for Surgical Pathology. (enter 1 per line): 1. bile duct-frozen. Release Date/Time. Start Date/Time. End Date/Time. Release Information. Released On. Released By. Frequency. Duration. Priority. Once. 1 occurrence. STAT. Unit Collect. Question. Answer. Comment. Specimen. (enter 1 per line). 1. bile duct-frozen. Lab Collection and Receipt Information. Collect Time. Collected By. Lab Receipt Date. Lab Receipt Time. Office. Pager/beeper E-mail. Authorizing Provider. Acknowledgement Info. For. At. Acknowledged Bv. Acknowledged On. Parent Status: Completed. (This order does not yet have any children). (enter 1 per line): 1. bile duct-frozen.
