patient_filename: TCGA-BC-A5W4.6BCF821F-1993-4BA9-A9D2-EB4DEACD402C
text: Diagnosis: A: Appendix and partial cecum, resection. - Tubulovillous adenoma with intramucosal adenocarcinoma,. involving appendiceal orifice (see comment). - Tumor size: 1.9 X 1.5 X 1.3 cm per gross measurement. - No invasive carcinoma identified. - Margin is negative for dysplasia and carcinoma (see Light. Microscopy). Polyp is 1.0 cm from the cecal margin per gross. measurement. - No lymphovascular or perineural invasion identified. - Uninvolved appendix with no significant pathologic. abnormality. - Adipose tissue with focal fat necrosis. - All adipose tissue is submitted for microscopic examination;. however, no lymph nodes are identified. B: Liver, NOS, hepatectomy. Histologic tumor type/subtype: hepatocellular carcinoma. Histologic grade: moderately differentiated. Number of tumors: One. Tumor location: per review of , , tumor location is segment 6. Tumor size: 8.8 X 8.0 X 6.2 cm per gross measurement. Focality/extent unifocal. Tumor necrosis/treatment effect: Approximately 10% necrosis. No. treatment effect is identified. Worst tumor differentiation: Moderately differentiated (Grade 3). Vascular invasion: present and extensive. Perineural invasion: not identified. Capsular invasion carcinoma abuts capsule but no definite. capsular invasion is identified (see Light microscopy). Margins: positive at en face portal triad margin and at blue. inked surgical margin (see Light microscopy). Lymph nodes: : none submitted. Satellite lesions: none identified. Background liver: - Cirrhotic liver (stage 4 fibrosis) with mild hepatosteatosis. No hepatosteatitis identified. See Light Microscopy. Other extrahepatic spread: not identified. Additional findings: - Fibrous serosal adhesion of capsule where capsule is abutting. carcinoma. Pretransplant treatment for HCC : Unknown. - No metastatic colorectal carcinoma identified. AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT3a pNx. NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information. available at the time of this report, and is subject to change. pending clinical review and additional information. C: Soft tissue, definitive lateral margin, excision. - Cirrhotic liver with steatosis, mild portal tract chronic. inflammation and bile duct proliferation. - No malignancy identified. D: Soft tissue, medial margin, excision. - Focal microscopic fragments of detached hepatocellular. carcinoma (see Light Microscopy). - Background cirrhotic liver with steatosis, bile duct. proliferation and acute cholangitis. E: Soft tissue, anterior margin, excision. - Microscopic foci of hepatocellular carcinoma involving. stitched margin (presumed true new margin, E2) and also. involving black inked opposite (cauterized) presumed old margin. - Background cirrhotic liver with bile duct proliferation and. steatosis. Comment: The representative section of villoglandular adenoma taken at. frozen section shows high grade dysplasia. The rest of the polyp. is submitted for permanent examination and shows areas of. intramucosal adenocarcinoma (back to back cribriforming glands. without intervening stroma and high grade nuclear atypia). No invasive carcinoma is identified. All of the polyp is. submitted for microscopic examination. All of the attached fat. is submitted for microscopic examination; however, no lymph. nodes are identified. Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis: An intraoperative consultation is requested by. FSA1: Appendix and partial cecum, resection. - Villoglandular polyp, suspicious for high grade dysplasia. - No invasive carcinoma seen, but specimen is limited on frozen. section. - Drs. . concur. Frozen Section Pathologist: MD. Clinical History: +year-old male documented history of hepatocellular carcinoma. Gross Description: Specimen A is labeled "appendix, partial cecum" and hold a. partial cecectomy and appendectomy specimen. The portion of. cecum measures 2.0 cm in length and 3.1 cm in diameter. The. attached appendix is 6.8 cm in length. The specimen is. received fresh for frozen section diagnosis then placed in. formalin. There is a staple line on the cecal margin, which is. removed and the exposed tissue is inked blue. The appendix. ranges from 1.5 cm in diameter proximally and 0.7 cm in diameter. distally. The outer surface of the appendix is tan, glistening. and smooth. At the appendiceal orifice there is a 1.9 X 1.5 X. 1.3 cm brown soft friable polyp. The polyp comes to within 1.0. cm away from cecal margin. Further sectioning reveals that the. polyp has a stalk measuring 0.5 cm in length and 0.5 cm in. diameter. The polyp appears mucosal based. The cecal mucosa is. tan/yellow and glistening. The remainder of the appendix is void. of luminal contents with the mucosa appearing pale, tan with. focal areas of hemorrhage with a wall thickness of 0.2 cm. No. additional lesions or masses are noted. A portion of the mass is. submitted for frozen section. Block Summary : FSA1 - Frozen section remnant. A2 - Cecal proximal margin, en face. A3-A4 - Trisected polyp including stalk. A5 - Base of the polyp cross sectioned. A6-A8 - Sequential sections of appendix distal from the polyp,. A8 contains longitudinal section of tip. A9 - Vascular pedicle margin, en face. A10-A12 - Muscle and lymph node candidate each. A13-A14 - One lymph node candidate, bisected. A15-A24 - Multiple lymph node candidates in each cassette. Tissue remains in formalin. Specimen B: Specimen Type: Segmentectomy. Specimen Weight: 525.0 grams. Measurement: 17 X 9.5 X 8.5 cm. Orientation: Surgical margin inked blue. Capsule: Tan/brown, nodular with a 6 cm X 5 cm area of. thickening. Mass: 8.8 X 8.0 X 6.2 cm. The mass is located, per. in. segment 6. The mass is unifocal and tan/yellow green in color. with nodularity and is vell-circumscribed with 10% necrosis. Adjacent liver tissue: Tan/brown nodular. Major portal vein/ hepatic vein: Gross evidence of vascular. invasion not identified. Gallbladder: Not identified. Tumor and normal is submitted to tissue procurement. Block Summary: B1 - Hepatic portal margins taken at time of triage, en face. B2-B3 - - Mass perpendicular to the inked surgical margin. B4 - Capsule. B5 - Mass with adjacent liver parenchyma. B6-B7 - - Mass and areas of necrosis. B8 - Normal liver parenchyma away from mass. Tissue remains in formalin. Specimen C is labeled "definitive lateral margin" and contains a. 4.8 X 3.5 X 1.5 cm segment of brown liver parenchyma. One. surface contains a stitch and is brown and nodular and inked. blue. The opposite surface is erythematous, brown,. and filled with focal areas of cauterization inked black. Further sectioning reveals tan/brown unremarkable liver. parenchyma. The specimen is entirely submitted in blocks C1-C9. Staples remain in formalin. Specimen D is labeled "medial margin" and holds two specimens,. one received with a stitch and measures 3.2 X 2.4 X 0.3 cm. The. stitched surface is brown, smooth, and inked blue. The opposite. surface is brown with focal areas of cauterization and is inked. black. The second specimen measures 2.2 X 1.5 X 0.7 cm. One surface is. tan and smooth and inked blue and the other surface is tan with. focal points of cauterization and inked black. Sectioning. reveals brown unremarkable liver parenchyma in both specimens. Block Summary : D1-D3 - First specimen. D4-D6 - - Specimen 2. Specimen E is labeled "anterior margin" and measures 4.5 X 2.7 X. 0.8 cm. Tissue was received with a stitch on one side and is. brown and smooth and inked blue. The opposite side is brown with. focal areas of cauterization and inked black. Sectioning reveals. brown unremarkable liver parenchyma. The specimen is entirely. submitted in block E1-E6,. Light Microscopy: Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr. The sections show hepatocellular carcinoma involving the portal. tract margin (B1) the surgical margin in specimen B and also. the separately submitted medial (specimen D) and anterior. margins (specimen E) . The carcinoma is detached in specimen D. and uninked; therefore, the carcinoma in this specimen cannot be. oriented as to old versus new margin in specimen D. In specimen. E, the carcinoma involves both the old and the new margin. Stains are performed on the portal tract margin (B1) and the. carcinoma in this section is positive for glypican 3 and shows. widened trabeculae by reticulin staining. The. immunohistochemistry is supportive of portal tract margin. involvement in Specimen B. The hepatocellular carcinoma abuts capsule with an overlying. fibrous serosal adhesion, reactive mesothelial cells and. hemosiderin laden macrophages. Immunohistochemistry is performed. on the section with capsule (B4) . HEPAR-1 is negative within the. fibrous adhesion and calretinin highlights reactive mesothelial. cells. The carcinoma abuts capsule; but no diagnostic. involvement of capsule is identified. The hepatocellular carcinoma shows both trabecular and. pseudoglandular (acinar) architecture. Immunohistochemistry is. performed on a representative section of carcinoma (B5) . HEPAR-1. stains a subset including the gland forming areas. Glypican 3 is positive. CK7 is positive in a subset including. both the glandular and non-glandular architecture. CD5 is. negative. The findings are consistent with a hepatocellular. carcinoma with areas of pseudoglandular architecture. No. adenocarcinoma (cholangiocarcinoma or metastatic colorectal. carcinoma) is identified. The background liver is cirrhotic with mild steatosis K< 10%,. predominately macrovesicular) No definite active. steatohepatitis is identified. Special stains are performed on. the representative uninvolved liver (B8) . Reticulin and. trichrome highlight stage 4 fibrosis. Iron highlights scattered. iron within hepatocytes and mostly within Kupffer cells. PASD. stains macrophages in sinusoidal areas, and is negative for. alpha-1 antitrypsin particles. In the cecal margin block of specimen A (A2) there is apparent. detached benign appearing liver tissue. HEPAR- is positive in. these detached fragments confirming liver in this section. This. may represent floater versus adhesion to liver. No carcinoma is. identified in the proximal cecal margin.
