patient_filename: TCGA-ZP-A9D2.260D67D7-9E8C-4A3B-B031-8AB4A05BC688
text: Results History. Component. UUTD:26006707-9E8C-4A3B-B031-8AB4A05BC688. Specimen: A. Gallbladder. B. Tumor in border of segment 7 and 8. C. Left lateral segment and section segment 4. Clinical Notes: Liver tumor HCC. C) Fresh tissue saved for. tissue bank. Diagnosis: REVISED REPORT. A. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy. Chronic cholecystitis. - Negative for dysplasia or malignancy. B. Tumor, liver segment 7 and 8, resection: - Multifocal moderately differentiated. hepatocellular carcinoma, completely excised. - AJCC stage: pT2 pNX pMX. See Tumor Characteristics. - Chronic HCV hepatitis with minimal activity and. cirrhosis (grade 1, stage 4). Mild siderosis (+1). C. Liver, left lateral segment and segment 4 section,. resection: - Solitary moderately differentiated hepatocellular. carcinoma with parenchymal margin. involvement. - See specimen B for AJCC staging and Tumor. Characteristics sheet. REVISED REPORT COMMENT: This report is revised to make a. change in the AJCC staging in the diagnosis for specimen B. from pNO to pNX (underlined above) . None of the other. original text has been altered. (Electronically signed bv). Verified: Tumor Characteristics: B: Liver, Resection (AJCC 7th Ed., 2010). MACROSCOPIC. SPECIMEN TYPE: Partial right segmentectomy. FOCALITY: Multiple (specify location) : Segment 7, 8, and 4 (specimen. C). TUMOR SIZE: Greatest Dimension: 3.3 x 2.5 x 2.5 cm (specimen C) . 2.0 x. 2.0 x 1.7 (specimen B, first nodule), 0.5 x 0.5 x 0 5 cm. (specimen B, second nodule), 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm (specimen B,. third nodule). MICROSCOPIC. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GII: Moderately differentiated. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) : pT2: Solitary tumor with vascular invasion or multiple. tumors none more than 5 cm. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) : pNX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed. DISTANT METASTASIS (pM) : Specify site (s), if known: pMX: Cannot be assessed. AJCC STAGING (pTNM) : pT2 pNX pMX. MARGINS: Bile duct margin cannot be assessed. Other margin - specify margin: Parenchymal margin involved. by invasive carcinoma - specimen C (slide C3). LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION: Macroscopic Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion. Not identified. Microscopic (Small Vessel) Invasion. Not identified. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Cirrhosis/fibrosis. Gross: A. The specimen is labeled "gallbladder. Received in. formalin is a 29 gram, 7. 0 x 3.0 x 2.0 cm, gallbladder. The. cystic duct margin is removed and the specimen is opened to. reveal a pink-tan velvety mucosa with a wall thickness of. 0.1 cm. Representative sections are submitted in cassette. A. Accession #: : B. The specimen is labeled "tumor in border of segment 7. and 8. " Received in formalin is a 34.6 gram, 4.8 x 4.5 X. 3.5 cm, portion of liver. The specimen has been previously. incised to reveal three nodules. The first nodule measures. 2.0 X 2.0 x 1.7 cm and is 0.3 cm from the closest. parenchymal margin and 0.5 cm from the closest capsular. margin. The second measures 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm and abuts. the capsule and is 0.5 cm from the closest parenchymal. margin. The third measures 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm and is 0.1 cm. from the capsule and 1.6 cm from the closest parenchymal. margin. The parenchymal surface is inked black. Representative sections are submitted as follows: Cassette Designation: B1-2. Representative section of first,. second, and third nodules with closest capsular. margin for all three and. closest parenchymal margin for nodules 2 and 3. B3. Representative section of first. nodule with closest parenchymal margin. C. The specimen is labeled "left lateral segment and. section segment 4. Received in formalin is a 324 gram,. 16.0 x 12.5 x 3.5 cm, portion of liver. The specimen has. been previously incised to reveal a 3.3 x 2.5 x 2.5 cm firm,. tan, nodular lesion which is 0.5 cm from the capsular margin. and appears to abut the parenchymal margin. The remaining. portion of the liver is grossly unremarkable without. identifiable masses or lesions. The parenchymal margin is. inked black. No large identifiable vessels are noted. Representative sections are submitted as follows: Cassette Designation: C1. Portion of liver nodule with. closest capsular margin. C2-3. Portion of liver lesion abutting. black inked parenchymal surface. C4. Additional representative section. of liver lesion. C5. Representative section of grossly. unremarkable liver. Microscopic: Histological examinations have been performed on specimens. A-C. B and C. The specimens are histologically similar and are. described together. Sections show portions of liver. parenchyma that demonstrate mixed macro- and micronodular. cirrhosis highlighted by a trichrome stain performed on. specimen C. Multiple large nodules of moderately. differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma are present that. exhibit an architecture with small cell change and. pseudocanalicular structures with prominent admixed. vasculature. The tumor cells contain bubbly lipid-laden. cytoplasm and pleomorphic nuclei with vesicular chromatin. and very prominent nucleolus as well as a high nuclear. cytoplasmic ratio. The tumor cells are present as nests and. pseudoglandular structures and exhibit occasional mitotic. figures and apoptoses. The tumor cell infiltrate involves. the cauterized and black inked parenchymal margin for. specimen C. However, the remaining nodules in the specimen. are well-circumscribed by dense fibrous capsule. A. reticulin stain performed on specimen B and C highlight. reticulin fiber loss within the tumor cell nodules and. thickening of cell plates as well as highlighting the. regenerative nodules in the uninvolved liver. The. background liver exhibits mixed macro- and micronodular. cirrhosis with portal areas that exhibit dense. lymphoplasmacytic infiltrate with focal areas of bile duct. proliferation. A Prussian Blue stain for iron demonstrates. mild siderosis (+1) in the form of intrahepatic and kupffer. cell iron. Controls stained appropriately. Administrative Notes: CPT: No charge codes are associated with this case,. Component. Specimen: A. Gallbladder. B. Tumor in border of segment 7 and 8. C. Left lateral segment and section segment 4. Clinical Notes: Liver tumor HCC. C) Fresh tissue saved for. tissue bank. Diagnosis: A. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy: - Chronic cholecystitis. Negative for dysplasia or malignancy. B. Tumor, liver segment 7 and 8, resection: Multifocal moderately differentiated. hepatocellular carcinoma, completely excised. - AJCC stage: pT2 pNO pMX. See Tumor Characteristics. - Chronic HCV hepatitis with minimal activity and. cirrhosis (grade 1, stage 4). Mild siderosis (+1) . C. Liver, left lateral segment and segment 4 section,. resection: - Solitary moderately differentiated hepatocellular. carcinoma with parenchymal margin. involvement. - See specimen B for AJCC staging and Tumor. Characteristics sheet. (Electronically signed by). Verified: Tumor Characteristics: B: Liver, Resection (AJCC 7th Ed., , 2010). MACROSCOPIC. SPECIMEN TYPE: Partial right segmentectomy. FOCALITY: Multiple (specify location) : Segment 7, 8, and 4 (specimen. C). TUMOR SIZE: Greatest Dimension: 3.3 x 2.5 x 2.5 cm (specimen C) . 2.0 X. 2.0 x 1.7 (specimen B, first nodule), 0.5 x 0.5 x 0 .5 cm. (specimen B, second nodule), 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm (specimen B,. third nodule). MICROSCOPIC. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GII: Moderately differentiated. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) : pT2: Solitary tumor with vascular invasion or multiple. tumors none more than 5 cm. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) : pNX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed. DISTANT METASTASIS (pM) : Specify site (s) if known: pMX: Cannot be assessed. AJCC STAGING (pTNM) : pT2 pNX pMX. MARGINS: Bile duct margin cannot be assessed. Other margin - specify margin: Parenchymal margin involved. by invasive carcinoma - specimen C (slide C3). LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION: Macroscopic Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion. Not identified. Microscopic (Small Vessel) Invasion. Not identified. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Cirrhosis/fibrosis. Gross: A. The specimen is labeled "gallbladder. " Received in. formalin is a 29 gram, 7.0 x 3.0 x 2.0 cm, gallbladder. The. cystic duct margin is removed and the specimen is opened to. reveal a pink-tan velvety mucosa with a wall thickness of. 0.1 cm. Representative sections are submitted in cassette. A. B. The specimen is labeled "tumor in border of segment 7. and 8. " Received in formalin is a 34.6 gram, 4.8 x 4. 5 x. 3.5 cm, portion of liver. The specimen has been previously. incised to reveal three nodules. The first nodule measures. 2.0 x 2.0 x 1.7 cm and is 0.3 cm from the closest. parenchymal margin and 0.5 cm from the closest capsular. margin. The second measures 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm and abuts. the capsule and is 0.5 cm from the closest parenchymal. margin. The third measures 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm and is 0.1 cm. from the capsule and 1.6 cm from the closest parenchymal. margin. The parenchymal surface is inked black. Representative sections are submitted as follows: Cassette Designation: B1-2. Representative section of first,. second, and third nodules with closest capsular. margin for all three and. closest parenchymal margin for nodules 2 and 3. B3. Representative section of first. nodule with closest parenchymal margin. C. The specimen is labeled "left lateral segment and. section segment 4." Received in formalin is a 324 gram,. 16.0 X 12.5 x 3.5 cm, portion of liver. The specimen has. been previously incised to reveal a 3.3 x 2.5 x 2.5 cm firm,. tan, nodular lesion which is 0.5 cm from the capsular margin. and appears to abut the parenchymal margin. The remaining. portion of the liver is grossly unremarkable without. identifiable masses or lesions. The parenchymal margin is. inked black. No large identifiable vessels are noted. Representative sections are submitted as follows: Cassette Designation: C1. Portion of liver nodule with. closest capsular margin. C2-3. Portion of liver lesion abutting. black inked parenchymal surface. C4. Additional representative section. of liver lesion. C5. Representative section of grossly. unremarkable liver. Microscopic: Histological examinations have been performed on specimens. A-C. B and C. The specimens are histologically similar and are. described together. Sections show portions of liver. parenchyma that demonstrate mixed macro- and micronodular. cirrhosis highlighted by a trichrome stain performed on. specimen C. Multiple large nodules of moderately. differentiated hepatocellular carc穩noma are present that. exhibit an architecture with small cell change and. pseudocanalicular structures with prominent admixed. vasculature. The tumor cells contain bubbly lipid-laden. cytoplasm and pleomorphic nuclei with vesicular chromatin. and very prominent nucleolus as well as a high nuclear. cytoplasmic ratio. The tumor cells are present as nests and. pseudoglandular structures and exhibit occasional mitotic. figures and apoptoses. The tumor cell infiltrate involves. the cauterized and black inked parenchymal margin for. specimen C. However, the remaining nodules in the specimen. are well-circumscribed by dense fibrous capsule. A. reticulin stain performed on specimen B and C highlight. reticulin fiber loss within the tumor cell nodules and. thickening of cell plates as well as highlighting the. regenerative nodules in the uninvolved liver. The. background liver exhibits mixed macro- and micronodular. cirrhosis with portal areas that exhibit dense. ymphoplasmacytic infiltrate with focal areas of bile duct. proliferation. A Prussian Blue stain for iron demonstrates. mild siderosis (+1) in the form of intrahepatic and kupffer. cell iron. Controls stained appropriately. Administrative Notes: CPT: No charge codes are associated with this case. In process.
