patient_filename: TCGA-XR-A8TG.B6CBB321-E73F-4A24-8557-E10E94B2B8C6
text: Nature of material: Liver. Biopsy number: ANATOMOPATHOLOGIC RESULT. MACROSCOPY. Received 2 vials, identified as follows: -Liver: liver fragment, wedge-shaped, measuring 7.5 X 6.0 X 1.5 cm and weighing 61.0. g. Its external surface shows capsule with opaque and rough appearance due to the. presence of multiple micro undulations. It shows a softened and whitish lesion of. circular shape with a larger diameter 2.5 cm, 1.0 cm away from the surgical resection. margin. The remaining portions of hepatic parenchyma show hardened, brownish and a. cirrhotic pattern. -Gallbladder: gallbladder, previously opened in its longer axis, measuring 7.5 x 3.5 X 1.0. cm. It is accompanied by the cystic duct stump, measuring 1.5 cm long and 0.6 cm in. diameter. Its outer surface is smooth and greenish-brown. The wall is gray and. homogeneous, while the mucosa shows velvety appearance and yellowish coloring,. with polypoid aspect folds. It was not observed stones. MICROSCOPY. Description associated with the diagnosis. DIAGNOSTIC. Product of partial hepatectomy and cholecystectomy: -Hepatocellular carcinoma of multinodular pattern with well differentiated (grade II of. Edmonson-Steiner - in 40% of the lesion) and poorly differentiated (grade IV of. Edmonson-Steiner - in 60% of the lesion) areas. The lesion shows solid, trabecular and. small cells morphologic pattern, with higher measure of 2.5 cm and focally infiltrating. liver capsule. -Vascular invasion and angiolymphatic embolization undetected. -Adjacent hepatic parenchyma with micronodular cirrhosis, associated with moderate. necroinflammatory activity. C virus infection, according to clinical data. -Free surgical margins. -Gallbladder with tiny and polypoid projections in mucosa, associated with xanthomized. macrophage accumulation (cholesterol polyps): Morphological features are compatible. with cholesterolosis. No signs of malignancy, in the gallbladder. -Pathological staging (TNM - 7th ed.): pT1 pNx. PARTICIPANTS OF APPRAISAL REPORT. - ISSUER. - REVIEWER.
