patient_filename: TCGA-UB-A7MB.8B239487-4D0E-45EF-84EB-F61B23C42FE7
text: (enter 1 per line): 1. gallbladder, 2. left hepatic lobe. Sex: Male. Soc. Sec. # : Locatio. Client: Physici. FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS. A. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy: 1. Gallbladder with no significant pathologic abnormalities. 2. No tumor identified. B. Liver, left lobe, partial hepatectomy: 1. Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately to poorly. differentiated, present as three discrete foci (4.9, 3.0, and 0.8 cm in. greatest dimension) in resected lobe of liver; see comment. 2. No tumor identified at surgical resection margins. 3. Non-neoplastic hepatic parenchyma showing minimal. macrovesicular steatosis. COMMENT : The three hepatic tumors generally resemble hepatocellular carcinoma,. but because of focal poorly differentiated areas (most notable in block. B5 of the 0.8 cm nodule), immunoperoxidase stains for Arginase-1 and. CK19 were performed on block B5 in order to exclude the possibility of a. combined hepatocellular and cholangiolar carcinoma. These stains show. the tumor cells to be diffusely positive for Arginase-1 and entirely. negative for CK19. A mucicarmine stain performed on block B5 is. negative in the tumor cells. A reticulin stain performed on block B5. confirms lack of normal hepatocellular architecture among the tumor. cells. Together, these findings support the diagnosis of hepatocellular. carcinoma. Dr. has reviewed selected slides from this case,. including the immunoperoxidase stains, and agrees with the diagnosis of. moderately to poorly differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma. Liver Tumor Synoptic Comment: Tumor type: Hepatocellular carcinoma (see above discussion). - Histologic grade: Moderate to poorly differentiated (grade. 2-3/3; see above discussion). - Tumor size (maximum diameter of largest lesion) : 4.9 cm. Tumor necrosis: None identified. - Multifocality (more than one tumor separated by nontumorous liver. parenchyma) : Present. - Estimated total tumor diameter of all HCC foci: 8. 7 cm. - Vascular invasion : Focal lymphatic invasion present (slide B1) i. no blood vessel invasion identified. - Hepatic capsule: Tumor focally abuts but does not penetrate through. overlying liver capsule. - Local extension of tumor: Confined to liver. - Hepatic surgical margins: Negative for tumor; tumor is 0.7 cm from. nearest margin. - Non-neoplastic liver: Minimal steatosis, no significant fibrosis. (confirmed by trichrome stain performed on block B7. - Hepatocellular nodules (in cirrhotic liver) : Not applicable (no. cirrhosis present). Lymph node status: Not applicable (no lymph nodes sample by surgical. procedure) . - AJCC Stage: pT2bNX. Specimen (s) Received. A:Gallbladder. B:Left hepatic lobe. Clinical History. The patient is a. +year-old man. Review of the patient's electronic. medical record. reveals that he has a longstanding history of. Crohn's disease, and was recently found to have multiple liver lesions. on imaging studies, the largest measuring 6 cm. A prior needle core. biopsy demonstrated hepatocellular carcinoma. ). The patient. now undergoes left hepatic lobectomy. Gross Description. The case was received in two parts, each labeled with the patient's name. and medical record number. Part A is received fresh and additionally labeled "gallbladder," and. consists of an intact gallbladder (7.5 x 3 x 2.5 cm). No calculi are. identified. The lumen contains thick yellow-tan bile. The mucosa is. tan and velvety with diffuse pinpoint yellow speckling present. The. wall is flaccid and averages 0.3 cm in thickness. The serosa is. grey-pink and glistening. The hepatic bed is tan-yellow and roughened. The cystic duct margin (0.3 cm in diameter; inked black) is patent. No. lymph nodes are identified. No tumor is identified. Representative. sections of the cystic duct, body and fundus are submitted in cassette. A1. Part B is received fresh and additionally labeled "left hepatic lobe. SPECIMEN TYPE: Partial hepatectomy. SIZE: 974 gm; 16.5 cm from right to left x 23.2 cm from anterior to. posterior x 5.1 cm from anterior to inferior. GROSS ABNORMALITIES Three vell-circumscribed, soft, white-tar lesions. are noted within the liver parenchyma. Nodule #1 (4.7 x 4.5 X 4.9 cm). is noted in segment 4B, abutting the overlying capsule and approximately. 2 cm from the cauterized resection margin. Nodule #2 (3 x 2.5 x 1 cm). is present in segment 4A, 1.7 cm from the overlying capsule and 0.7 cm. from the cauterized resection margin. Nodule #3 (0.8 x 0.1 x 0.3 cm) is. present in segment 3, 0.3 cm from the overlying capsule and. approximately 12 cm from the cauterized resection margin. The. uninvolved liver parenchyma is tan-brown and homogenous. ORIENTED BY: Anatomic landmarks. INTRAOPERATIVE FINDINGS: Gross only. INKING: - Liver capsule overlying mass: Black. - Cauterized surgical margin: Blue. - Area of tissue banking performed by surgeon: Green. CASSETTES : Representative sections are submitted as follows: B1: Nodule #1 with overlying capsule. B2: Nodule #1 with adjacent uninvolved liver parenchyma. B3: Nodule #2 with closest approach to resection margin. B4: Nodule #2 with adjacent uninvolved liver parenchyma. and overlying capsule. B5: Nodule #3 with adjacent uninvolved liver parenchyma and. overlying capsule. B6: Uninvolved liver parenchyma, peripheral. Uninvolved liver parenchyma, central. B8: Vascular and bile duct resection margins, en face. The immunoperoxidase stain (s) reported above were developed and their. performance characteristics determined by the. They have not been cleared or approved by the. U. S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such. clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for. clinical purposes, and were necessary to reach a final diagnosis in this. case. They should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement. Amendments of 1988 ("CLIA") as qualified to perform high-complexity. clinical testing. Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. Final diagnosis. made by attending pathologist following review of all pathology slides. The attending pathologist has reviewed all dictations and preliminary. interpretations performed by any resident involved in the case and. performed all necessary edits before signing the final report. Pathology PDF Report. Show images for Surgical Pathology. (enter 1 per line): 1. gallbladder, 2. left hepatic lobe. Authorizing Provider Information. Date/Time. Result History. (enter 1 per line): 1. gallbladder, 2. left hepatic lobe I. This is NOT a Requisition. Requisition hyperlink below. (enter 1 per line): 1. gallbladder, 2. left hepatic lobe. Authorizing: Pathology and Cytology. Department: Show images for Surgical Pathology. (enter 1 per line): 1. gallbladder, 2. left hepatic lobe. Release Date/Time. Start Date/Time. End Date/Time. Release Information. Released On. Released By. Frequency. Duration. Priority. Once. 1 occurrence. Routine. Unit Collect. Question. Specimen. (enter 1 per line). 1. gallbladder. 2. left hepatic lobe. hepatocellular. carcinoma. Lab Collection and Receipt Information. Collect Time. Collected By. Lab Receipt Date. Lab Receipt Time. Office. Pager/beeper E-mail. Authorizing Provider. Acknowledgement Info. For. At. Acknowledged By. Acknowledged On. Parent Status: Completed. (This order does not yet have any children). (enter 1 per line): 1. gallbladder, 2. left hepatic lobe.
