patient_filename: TCGA-DD-A1EJ.A34C7F12-5EB1-4B7C-890C-FD2DFF41E85C
text: TISSUE DESCRIPTION: A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A6 A7. Right lobe liver (20.0 x 15.0 X 12.0 cm) with gallbladder (8.5. X 3.0 x 2.2 cm) together weighing 1590.0 grams. DIAGNOSIS: Liver, right lobe with gallbladder resection Grade 2 (of 4). well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma forming a tan-. green nodular, poorly circumscribed solitary mass (14.1 2 X 12.0 X. 11.8 cm) - . The tumor is partially encapsulated and shows a broad. pushing-type border with the adjacent non-neoplastic parenchyma. No satellite masses are identified. No large vein invasion is. identified. The tumor extends up to but does not involve the. gallbladder muscular wall. All surgical resection margins are. negative for tumor (minimum tumor free margin, 0.3 cm) . The. gallbladder mucosa is unremarkable. The non-neoplastic liver. will be reviewed on permanent sections and will be reported in. an addendum. ADDENDUM: The permanent sections of the non-neoplastic liver are. reviewed. The portal areas present show only minimal patchy non-. specific inflammation. Numerous portal areas are totally. unremarkable. The interlobular bile ducts are intact and show. no significant cellular injury. No significant ductular. proliferation is identified. The hepatic lobular parenchyma is. essentially unremarkable. No significant steatosis is. identified. No significant necroinflammatory activity is noted. Apoptotic hepatocytes are inconspicuous. The PAS stain after. diastase digestion demonstrates no significant cytoplasmic. globular inclusions within hepatocytes. The iron stain. demonstrates no significant iron accumulation within. hepatocytes or Kupffer cells. The trichrome stain highlights. the portal areas and demonstrates no significant portal tract. expansion by fibrosis and specifically no periportal or. pericellular fibrosis is identified. TISSUE DESCRIPTION: A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A6 A7. Right lobe liver (20.0 X 15.0 X 12.0 cm) with gallbladder (8.5. X 3.0 x 2.2 cm) together weighing 1590.0 grams. DIAGNOSIS: Liver, right lobe with gallbladder, resection: Grade 2 (of 4). well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma forming a tan-. green nodular, poorly circumscribe籀 solitary mass (14.2 X 12. 0 X. 11. 8 cm). The tumor is partially encapsulated and shows a broad. pushing-type border with the adjacent non-neoplastic parenchyma. No satellite masses are identified. No large vein invasion is. identified. The tumor extends up to but does not involve the. gallbladder muscular wall. All surgical resection margins are. negative for tumor (minimum tumor free margin, 0.3 cm). The. gallbladder mucosa is unremarkable. The non-neoplastic liver. will be reviewed on permanent sections and will be reported in. an addendum. ADDENDUM: The permanent sections of the non-neoplastic liver are. reviewed. The portal areas present show only minimal patchy non- -. specific inflammation. Numerous portal areas are totally. unremarkable. The interlobular bile ducts are intact and show. no significant cellular injury. No significant ductular. proliferation is identified. The hepatic lobular parenchyma is. essentially unremarkable. No significant steatosis is. identified. No significant lecroinflammatory activity is noted. Apoptotic hepatocytes are inconspicuous. The PAS stain after. diastase digestion demonstrates no significant cytoplasmic. globular inclusions within hepatocytes. The iron stain. demonstrates no significant iron accumulation within. hepatocytes or Kupffer cells. The trichrome stain highlights. the portal areas and demonstrates no significant portal tract. expansion by fibrosis and specifically no periportal or. pericellular fibrosis is identified.
