patient_filename: TCGA-GJ-A9DB.8B2D3FA5-D673-4B70-B153-7EACE17A50E0
text: Operative Procedure: Right hepatectomy, cholecystectomy. A: Gallbladder. B: Portal lymph node. C: Right hepatectomy (FS). D: Liver right lobe. Final Pathologic Diagnosis: A. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy: No significant pathologic change. B. Lymph node, portal, resection: Four benign lymph nodes negative for malignancy (0/4). C. Liver, right hepatectomy: Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated. Specimen: Liver, gallbladder. Procedure: Partial hepatectomy. Tumor histologic type: Hepatocellular carcinoma. Tumor size: 6.0 cm (greatest dimension). Tumor focality: Unifocal. Number of tumors: One. Histologic type: Hepatocellular carcinoma. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Tumor extension: Tumor confined to liver. Margins: Parenchymal: Uninvolved (1.7 cm away). Frozen section diagnosis confirmed. Lymph-vascular invasion: Macroscopic venous (large vessel) invasion: Not identified. Microscopic (small vessel) invasion: Not identified. Pathologic staging: TNM descriptors: None known. Primary tumor: pT1. Regional lymph nodes: pNO. Number examined: 4. Number involved: 0. Distant metastasis: Not known. Additional pathologic findings: Steatosis with. perisinusoidal, periportal and focal bridging fibrosis (stage 2-3/4) (trichrome. stain). D. Liver, right lobe, excision: Steatosis with perisinusoidal, periportal and focal bridging fibrosis. (stage 2-3/4). The examination of this case material and the preparation of this report were. Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis: FSC: Right hepatectomy (gross only): Tumor 17 mm from margin. Specimen reported: Gross Description: Received are four formalin filled containers labeled with the patient's last. name, and surgical case number. The container A is additionally labeled, "Part A gallbladder.' The specimen. consists of a gallbladder measuring 9 x 3.5 X 3.5 cm. The serosa is. green-blue-purple, smooth and glistening. There are no lymph nodes in the fat. adjacent to cystic duct. The lumen contains a moderate amount of yellow-green. bile and there is no choleliths identified. The mucosa is yellow-green and. velvety. The wall thickness is 0.3 cm. The cystic duct is patent without any. impact. The diameter of cystic duct is 0.2 cm. Representative sections are. submitted in cassette A1. Part B is additionally labeled, "portal lymph nodes." The specimen consists of. fibroadipose tissue measuring 2 X 1.5 X 0.5 cm. Upon sectioning, multiple lymph. nodes are identified and the specimen is submitted entirely in cassette B1 and. B2. Part C is additionally labeled, "right hepatectomy (gross only)." The specimen. consists of a right lobe of liver. It has previously been surgically dissected. already. The specimen measures 21 x 11 x 11 cm and weighs 1400 g. The capsule is. green-brown without nodularity. A lobulated yellow-white mass has been found in. the parenchyma. It measures 6 X 5 x 4 cm and is 0.6 cm from the liver capsule. The mass is 1.7 cm from the surgical margin. The surgical margin has already. been inked with black color. The cutting section of the mass is solid. The rest. of the liver parenchyma is pink-tan, smooth without nodularities. Representative. sections are submitted as follows: C1. surgical margin with tubular structures which are consistent with. blood vessels;. C2. shaved surgical margin;. C3,4. mass to surgical margin;. C5,6. mass to capsule;. C7. normal liver parenchyma. Part D is additionally labeled, "liver right lobe" and the specimen consists of. a fragment of liver tissues measuring 8 X 4 x 3 cm and it weighs 44 g and the. new surgical margin has been inked black and the rest of parenchyma margin has. been inked blue. The liver capsule has not been inked. Upon step-sectioning. there is no tumor mass. The section is perpendicular to the new surgical margin. and representative sections have been submitted in D1 through D6. Microscopic Description: The final diagnosis of each specimen incorporates the microscopic examination. findings. Age: ) Gender: M.
