patient_filename: TCGA-ZS-A9CD.11C6E09D-89C3-43B9-B884-247278242067
text: Nature of Specimen (s). Right lobe of liver. Clinical Information Supplied. Right hepatectomy. Past medical history of NIDDM. Macro Report. Received was an 851g right hepatectomy specimen measuring 201 x. 103 x up to 111mm. The resection margin measured 179 x 101mm. Beneath the diaphragmatic surface there was evidence of pale. tumour in the subcapsular area which on sectioning showed a pale. lobulated tumour mass measuring 43mm in maximum. Further. sectioning revealed further smaller areas of tumour ranging in. size from 4mm up to 17mm. These all appear to be within the. general area of the main tumour mass. The background liver. parenchyma appeared rather fatty. Towards the inferior portion of. the liver a further solitary tumour mass 15mm in maximum was. present, this being some 17mm from the resection margin. Blocks A - smaller inferior lesion to closest margin, B - whole. section of small lesion, C&D - whole section from larger tumour. mass to closest resection margin, E-K - sections from tumour mass,. L-N - background liver. Micro Report. Histology shows multifocal hepatocellular carcinoma with a variety. of architectural patterns including nodules with marked steatosis. and Mallory's hyaline and other areas in which there is a rather. more nested and trabecular pattern of growth. The tumour is. completely excised by a margin of at least 14mm from the surgical. margin. There is no evidence of capsular breach or peritoneal. surface involvement. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF RECEIPT. WARD SECRETARY. DOCTOR. The background liver shows established bridging fibrosis, focally. amounting to early cirrhosis (confirmed on Van Gieson and. reticulin stains) There is moderate, predominantly. macrovesicular, steatosis. Areas of periportal, interface and. focal lobular inflammation are noted, however, these may be. related to the presence of tumour. The inflammatory infiltrate is. composed predominantly of small lymphocytes. Occasional plasma. cells and eosinophils are also noted. An orcein stain for copper associated protein is negative. A Perls' stain for iron is negative. No PAS positive diastase resistant globules are identified. Summary. Overall the features are those of multifocal hepatocellular. carcinoma arising in a background of cirrhotic liver. The tumour. is completely excised by a margin of at least 14mm. Signature of Pathologist (s). ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF RECEIPT. WARD SECRETARY. DOCTOR.
