patient_filename: TCGA-A6-6138.270ff9cd-8154-4fab-b2b5-01e9ace89200
text: SPECIMEN. Right colon. CLINICAL NOTES. PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Cancer cecum. GROSS DESCRIPTION. Received fresh labeled "right colon" is a previously. unopened 30 cm. segment of proximal right colon with. attached 19 cm. of distal ileum surfaced by smooth scabrous tan pink. serosa with a copious amount of attached mesocolon and mesentery. An unremarkable 3.9 cm. appendix averaging 0.5 cm. in diameter is. present. The proximal and distal margins measures 4.5 and 8.0 cm. in circumference respectively. On opening there is a well. circumscribed, 5.5 X 4.9 cm. rubbery white pink-red tumor. immediately distal to the ileocecal valve. A portion of tumor and a. portion of normal mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement as. requested. On sectioning, the tumor has a maximal thickness of 1.0. cm. and appears to extend into the muscularis and extend to within. 1.2 cm. of the inked serosal surface. The ileal mucosa is. unremarkable, tan-pink with regular folds and the walls average 0.5. cm. in thickness. A soft tan-pink colonic polyp is present. measuring 0.2 cm. in greatest dimension, 11 cm. distal to the main. tumor (see block 8) No additional mass lesion or abnormality is. identified. Multiple soft to slightly rubbery pale tan tissues in. keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.3 cm. in greatest. dimension are recovered from the attached mesocolon and mesentery. entative sections are submitted in 17 blocks as labeled. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Proximal and distal margins; 2 - tumor to inked. free radial serosal surface; 3, 4 - central tumor; 5 - tumor to ICV;. 6 - tumor to distal mucosa; 7 - random ileum; 8 - colon with small. polyp; 9 - random colon; 10 - appendix; 11-13 - ole lymph nodes;. 14-17 - one bisected lymph node per cassette. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION. This right hemicolectomy specimen contains a moderately. differentiated adenocarcinoma of the cecum, involving the cecal side. of the ileocecal valve. Please see the template below: Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade Moderately differentiated. Primary tumor (pT) : The tumor invades nearly the full thickness of. the muscularis propria, (pT2). Proximal margin: Negative for tumor. Distal margin: Negative for tumor. Circumferential (radial) margin: Negative for tumor. Distance of tumor from closest margin: The tumor measures 1.2 cm. from the inked serosal surface and 19 cm from the proximal margin. Vascular invasion: Negative. Regional lymph nodes (pN) : Twenty-four lymph nodes are found, all. Of which are negative for metastatic disease, 0/24 (pNO). Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Negative. Distant metastasis (pM) : Cannot be assessed. Other findings: A 2 mm adenomatous polyp is noted within the colon. Ileum and appendix, no significant pathology. DIAGNOSIS. Right colon, right hemicolectomy - Moderately-differentiated. adenocarcinoma. of the cecum extending into but not through the muscularis. propria. No. lymphatic invasion found and all twenty-four lymph nodes are. negative for. metastatic disease. All margins are negative for tumor. An. incidental. 2 mm adenomatous polyp is noted within the right colon. Terminal ileum and appendix, no significant pathology. End Of Report ---.
