patient_filename: TCGA-A6-5659.16172149-a834-4f41-a786-5d87a69fc65c
text: SPECIMEN. Right colon. CLINICAL NOTES. PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Cecal cancer. GROSS DESCRIPTION. Received fresh for tissue procurement labelled "right. colon" is a previously unopened 25 cm segment of proximal. right colon with attached 21 cm of distal ileum surfaced by smooth. to slightly scabrous tan-pink serosa with a copious amount of. attached mesocolon, mesentery, and unremarkable omentum. No. appendix is identified grossly. The proximal and distal margins. measure 4.5 and 10.2 cm in circumference respectively. On opening,. there is a moderately well-circumscribed, 5.0 X 4.2 cm rubbery. tan-white-red tumor mass located 3.5 cm distal to the ileocecal. valve. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal mucosa are. submitted for tissue procurement as requested. On sectioning, the. tumor measures up to 0.8 cm in thickness, grossly extending into. muscularis to within 0.15 cm of the inked free radial serosal. surface (see blocks 2-4) Two additional sessile rubbery pale tan. polypoid lesions measuring 0. and 1.0 cm in greatest dimension are. present 8 and 2 cm distal to the aforementioned tumor (see blocks 6. and 7 respectively) . The ileal and remaining uninvolved colonic. mucosa are unremarkable glistening tan-pink with regular folds and. the walls average 0.5 cm in thickness. Multiple soft to slightly. rubbery tan-pink tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up. to. 1.4 cm in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached. mesocolon and mesentery. Representative sections are submitted in. 15 blocks as labelled. RS-15. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - proximal and distal margins; 2-4 - tumor. full - thickness to inked free radial serosal surface; 5 - tumor to. normal; 6 - small additional polypoid lesion; 7 - bisected larger. additional polypoid lesion; 8 - random ileum; 9 - ICV; 10 - random. colon; 11-12 - eight whole lymph nodes per cassette; 13 - S whole. lymph nodes; 14-15 - five whole lymph nodes per cassette. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION. Histologic type: Invasive adenocarcinoma, not otherwise specified. Histologic grade Moderately differentiated. Primary tumor (pT) : Tumor invades into muscularis propria, no. invasion into pericolonic fat is identified and the serosal surface. is negative for tumor (pT2). Proximal margin: Negative for tumor. Distal margin: Negative for tumor. Circumferential (radial) margin: Not truly applicable, but the. serosal surface is negative for tumor. Distance of tumor from closest margin: 20 cm from distal margin. Vascular invasion: Not identified. Regional lymph nodes (pN) : Twenty-six lymph nodes are dissected. from the specimen. They are all negative for metastatic tumor. (pNO). Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified. Distant metastasis (pM) : Could not evaluate, pMX. Other findings: One tubular adenoma is identified and one serrated. adenoma is identified. Random sections of colon and small. intestine. are unremarkable. 5x1, 3260F. DIAGNOSIS. A. Colon, right, ileocolectomy: Invasive adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, invasive. into muscularis propria (pT2). Twenty-six lymph nodes negative for metastatic tumor (pNO) . One tubular adenoma and one serrated adenoma. See Microscopic description. --- End Of Report ---.
