patient_filename: TCGA-KB-A6F5.85EA626E-56D5-413B-9E90-1DD636BAAEE1
text: M. Facility: Specimen(s) Received. 1. Lymph-Node: Para Esophageal. 2. Stomach Resection: Total stomach and proximal esophagus qs on esophagus margin. 3. Esophagus: Final esophageal margin #1. 4. Esophagus: Final esophageal margin #2. Diagnosis. 1. Lymph-Node: Para Esophageal: - lymph node x1: negative for carcinoma. 2. Stomach and distal esophagus, total gastrectomy and distal esophagectomy: - adenocarcinoma of proximal stomach, moderately to poorly differentiated, intestinal type, extending into distal. oesophagus, invading perigastric fat - see synoptic data and comment. metastatic adenocarcinoma in 4/16 lymph nodes. - resection margins: negative for carcinoma. - chronic atrophic pan-gastritis with marked intestinal metaplasia. 3. Esophagus: Final esophageal margin #1: - negative for carcinoma. 4. Esophagus: Final esophageal margin #2: - negative for carcinoma. Comment. 2. The tumor has features of an intestinal type adenocarcinoma and is focally poorly differentiated. There is chronic. pangastritis with marked intestinal metaplasia. No H. pylori are identified. Synoptic Data. Clinical History: Not known. Specimen: Stomach. Distal esophagus. Procedure: Total gastrectomy. Tumor Site: Fundus. Body - Anterior wall. Body - Posterior wall. Body - Lesser curvature. Body - Greater curvature. Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 11.5 cm. Additional dimension: 7.5 cm. Additional dimension: 1.7 cm. Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma, intestinal type. Histologic Grade: G3: Poorly differentiated. Microscopic Extent of Tumor: Tumor invades subserosal connective tissue. Proximal Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Carcinoma in situ/adenoma not identified at proximal margin. Distal Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Carcinoma in situ/adenoma not identified at distal margin. Omental (Radial) Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Deep Margin: Deep margin not applicable. Status of All Margins: All margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 11,0 mm. Closest margin: Proximal margin. Treatment Effect: No prior treatment. Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Present. Perineural Invasion: Present. TNM Descriptors: Not applicable. Primary Tumor (pT): pT3: Tumor invades subserosal connective tissue, without involvement of. visceral peritoneum or adjacent structures. Regional Lymph Nodes (pN): pN2: Metastasis in 3 to 6 perigastric lymph nodes. Number of lymph nodes examined: 16. Number of lymph nodes involved: 4. Distant Metastasis (pM): Not applicable. Additional Pathologic Findings: Intestinal metaplasia. Other gastritis: chronic atrophic gastritis. Pathologic Staging is based on AJCC/UICC TNM, 7th Edition. Gross Description. 1. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as a. para esophageal" contains two pieces of yellowish. black nodal tissue measuring 0.4 X 0.4 x 0.2 cm and 0.6 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm received in 10% buffered formalin. 1A submitted in toto. 2. STOMACH RESECTION FOR TUMOR. (INCLUDES GE JUNCTION TUMORS). GROSS EXAMINATION. RESECTION SPECIMEN: e.g. Total stomach, subtotal and proximal esophagus. on the esophageal margin,. perigastric fat and omentum. FIXATION: Fixed. DIMENSIONS: Length along lesser curvature 14.5 cm. Length along greater curvature 30 cm. Circumference of distal gastric margin 8 cm. Circumference of proximal gastric margin n/a. Length of tubular esophagus if present 5-cm. circumference of tubular esophagus if present 5-cm. TUMOR: - cardia, fundus, GEJ, body. - Greater and lesser curvature. - Anterior and posterior wall. - 90% of tumor located in the stomach. - CONFIGURATION: exophytic with ulcerative center, annular/circumferential. - DIMENSIONS: Diameters 11.5 cm in circumference, 7.5 cm in length. Depth 1.7 cm. DESCRIPTIVE CHARACTERISTICS: solid and homogeneous tan white on cut surface. - PERFORATION: no. - DISTANCE FROM MARGINS: - PROXIMAL 1.1 cm. - DISTAL. 10.0 cm. - RADIAL 9.0 cm (non-peritonealized soft tissue margin closest to deepest tumor penetration. ESTIMATED DEPTH OF INVASION: perigastric fat. LESIONS IN NONCANCEROUS STOMACH: None. LYMPH NODES: Multiple perigastric lymph nodes along the greater and lesser curvatures ranging in size from 0.3 to 3.0. cm. ADDITIONAL STRUCTURESS: The greater omentum measures 37 x 17 x 2 cm. On serially sectioning no nodules. identified. Tissue is stored frozen. Representative Sections: 2A, 2B esophageal resection margin en face, frozen section blocks resubmitted. 2C-2F one full length section of tumor from esophageal end to gastric wall just distal to tumor, includes a section of lymph. node). Both ends painted with India ink-they are NOT MARGINS). 2G, 2H, tumor with extension into perigastric fat and the remainder of greater curvature lymph node from block 2E. 21 tumor with a section of lymph node from lesser curvature. 2J tumor abutting serosa. 2K gastric wall adjacent to tumor. 2L gastric body. 2M gastric antrum. 2N pylorus. 20-2S omentum. Lesser curvature lymph nodes: 2T, 2U multiple lymph nodes, each block. 2V, one lymph node bisected. 2W one lymph node trisected. 2X, 2Y representative sections from one large lymph node. Greater curvature lymph nodes: 2Z multiple lymph nodes. 2AA, 2AB one lymph node, bisected, each block. 2AC, 2AD query quadrisected lymph node vs splenule. ADDITIONAL BLOCKS: 2AE-2AF stomach < 5cm from tumour. 2AG-2AH stomach > 5cm from tumour. 2AI distal resection margin, en face. 3. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as "final esophageal margin #1" contains a circular ring of. tan tissue, grossly consistent with esophagus measuring 3 x 1.2 x 1.1 cm received in 10% buffered formalin. There is a. staple line along one side of the specimen. No gross abnormality noted. 3A full face section opposite to staple line en face. 4. The specimen container labeled with the patient's name and as "final esophageal margin #2" contains a piece of. gray-tan, partly hemormhagic tissue, grossly consistent with esophagus measuring 4.5 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm received in 10%. buffered formalin. The surface of the tissue is smooth to slightly nodular. No staple line is identified. 4A, 4B, bisected and submitted in toto. Quick Section Diagnosis. 2A,B (esophageal margin): negative for carcinoma. Reviewed with.
