patient_filename: TCGA-A6-6137.700d53ad-bf88-4b4e-952a-6714e9a74a87
text: SPECIMEN. Right hemicolectomy. CLINICAL NOTES. PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Hepatic flexure cancer. POST-OP DIAGNOSIS: Same. GROSS DESCRIPTION. Received fresh in a container labeled "right hemicolectomy". is a segment of bowel consisting of 6 cm of terminal ileum. with contiguous 23 cm of proximal colon. The serosal surface is. glistening and tan-pink, and there is a moderate amount of attached. adipose tissue. There is an unremarkable appendix present,. measuring 6.5 cm long X 0. cm in diameter. On cut surface, it is. without focal lesion, without gross evidence of inflammation. The. bowel measures 3.6 cm and 8 cm in circumference at the proximal and. distal resection margins respectively. The bowel is opened, and. there is a circumscribed 5.3 X 5 cm rubbery white-pink mass located. 11 cm proximal to the distal margin. A portion of tumor and of. normal tissue are submitted for tissue procurement per the clinical. requested. On sectioning, the tumor has a maximum thickness of 1.6. cm, and grossly extends through the musuclaris propria and into. surrounding adipose tissue. It is 1 cm from the outer surface of. the specimen. The remainder of the bowel wall averages 0.5 cm thick. and has a tan-pink glistening mucosa with a normal pattern and. folds. The adipose tissue is dissected, and soft tan lymph nodes are. identified up to 1.8 cm in greatest dimension. RS-17, following. fixation. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - proximal and distal resection margins; 2-6 -. tumor, including relation to uninvolved tissue; 7 - ileocecal valve;. 8 - random colon; 9 - appendix; 10-12 - multiple lymph nodes per. block; 13-15 - one sect ed lymph node per block; 16,17 - sectioned. largest lymph node. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION. The following template summaries the findings in this case: Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma of the colon. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Primary tumor (pT) : Adenocarcinoma invades through the full. thickness of the bowel wall and into surrounding adipose tissue. (pT3). Proximal margin: Negative. Distal margin: Negative. Circumferential (radial) margin: Negative. Distance of tumor from closest margin: See gross description. Vascular invasion: Not identified. Regional lymph nodes (pN) : pN1c. Twenty-one negative lymph nodes. are identified and they are negative for malignancy. However in. block #12, on deeper levels, there is a tumor nodule identified in. fat without histologic evidence of residual lymph node tissue, and. given the presence of this tumor deposit, this is pN1c. Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: See above. Distant metastasis (pM) : pMX. Other findings: Appendix without specific diagnostic abnormalities. DIAGNOSIS. Terminal ileum, appendix, and right colon, excision. Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colon, invading. through the full thickness of the muscularis propria and into. surrounding adipose tissue (see microscopic description) . - Margins negative for malignancy. - Tumor deposit identified in pericolonic fat, and twenty-one. lymph nodes negative for malignancy (pN1c). ific. malities. End Of Report ---.
