patient_filename: TCGA-A6-6651.c67ee589-8004-455c-8ccf-f02f086e4030
text: Date Coll: SPECIMEN. A. Subtotal colectomy. B. Small bowel mass. C. Appendectomy. CLINICAL NOTES. PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Transverse colon cancer. FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS. B. Serosal fibrosis, no tumor seen. on, further. evaluation on permanent sections. GROSS DESCRIPTION. A. Received fresh in a container labeled "colon" is a. segment of colon 23 cm long. The specimen is received open. at both ends, which are arbitrarily inked blue and black. The. serosal surface is tan-pink and glistening. There is abundant. attached yellow adipose tissue. There is also abundant omentum. present, 42 X 5 X 3 cm in greatest dimensions. The omentum is. serially sectioned, and there are no focal lesions. The segment of. bowel is opened. It averages 6.5 cm in circumference. 5.5 cm from. the black-inked end of the specimen, there is a 5.5 X 5 X 3.8 cm. tumor mass. On cut surface, this tumor grossly invades into, and. apparently through, the muscularis propria, into surrounding soft. tissues. Although extending near to the serosal surface, tumor does. not appear to reach the serosal surface, and is not near the radial. margin. The surface deep to the tumor is inked. 3.5 cm from. the. blue-inked margin is a separate 3.5 X 3.3 X 2.7 cm polypoid lesion. There is some black tattooing in this region. On cut surface, the. polypoid lesion is exophytic, without definite gross invasion into. the bowel wall. The specimen away from the lesions has a tan-pink. glistening mucosa and tan wall. The adipose tissue is dissected,. and multiple tan lymph nodes are identified. RS-22, following. fixation. BLOCK SUMMARY: A1,A2 - omentum; A3 - proximal and distal resection. margins; A4-A7 - invasive tumor mass, with one lymph node also. included in block A7; A8-A16 - entire polypoid lesion; A17-A22 -. lymph nodes. B. Received fresh in a container labeled "B - small bowel. mass" is a portion of tan tissue with mucosa along one. surface, 3 X 2 cm, and 0.3 cm deep, compatible with small bowel. On. the serosal surface there is a tan-white plaque-like area, 0.8 X 0.5. X. 0.1 cm. A section is submitted for frozen section, including the. plaque-like area, and the remainder of the specimen is entirely. submitted for permanent sections in three additional blocks. C. Received in formalin in a container labeled "appendix". is a 5.5 cm long X 0.7 cm in diameter appendix. It is. grossly unremarkable, with a tan-pink glistening serosal surface,. wall, and tan mucosa. There are no focal lesions. AS-1. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION. The following template summarizes the findings in this case: Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma of the colon in part A, present in. the lesion submitted in blocks A4-A7. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Primary tumor (pT) : pT3. Adenocarcinoma invades through the full. thickness of the muscularis propria into surrounding adipose. tissue. Proximal margin: Negative. Distal margin: Negative. Circumferential (radial) margin: Negative. Distance of tumor from closest margin: See gross description. Vascular invasion: Not definitively identified. Regional lymph nodes (pN) : pN1b. There is metastatic. adenocarcinoma in two of thirty-three (2/33) lymph nodes. One. of. the positive lymph nodes is the lymph node immediately subjacent. to the tumor submitted in block A7. Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified. Distant metastasis (pM) : pMX. Other findings: The separate polypoid lesion in part A is a. tubulovillous. th focal severe dysplasia. Part A is also. notable for. Part B has serosal fibrosis, without tumor. seen. In pa. appendix is without specific diagnostic. abnormalities, with luminal obliteration. Note: This case has been reviewed in Intradepartmental. Consultation, with concurrence with the interpretation. 5,4,1,14. DIAGNOSIS. A. Colon, subtotal excision. - Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, invading through. the full thickness of the muscularis propria and into the. surrounding adipose tissue (pT3, see microscopic. description). - Separate tubulovillous adenoma, with focal severe dysplasia. - Margins negative for malignancy. - Metastatic adenocarcinoma in two of thirty-three (2/33). lymph nodes. B. Tissue, small bowel, excision. - Serosal fibrosis, no tumor seen. C. Appendix, excision. - Luminal obliteration, without specific diagnostic. abnormalities. --- End Of Report ---.
