patient_filename: TCGA-A6-6140.72f5199d-0b09-44b9-81fd-67a71f21f2af
text: SPECIMEN. A. Transverse colostomy. B. Omental lymph node. C. Transverse and descending colon includes site of (procurement). colostomy. CLINICAL NOTES. PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Cancer splenic flexure. GROSS DESCRIPTION. A. [The] Specimen is received unfixed labeled "transverse. colostomy" and consists of a colostomy takedown specimen. measuring 6 X 4.5 X 3 cm. On cut section, the mucosal surface is. tan with some focal red disc near the skin margin. Sections after fixation. B. Specimen is rec vd in formalin labeled "omental lymph. node" and con S S of a yellow piece of tissue measuring. 0.9 X 0.4 X 0.5 cm. C. The speci n'is received unfixed labeled "transverse. and descending colon" and consists of two separate segments. of large bowel. One segment has stapled margins and measures 11.5 X. approximately 4 cm in diameter. This segment has a central area of. induration and narrowing on the serosal surface. The abnormal area. is 3 cm from the nearest stapled margin. There is abundant. pericolonic fat and the entire specimen is up to 15 cm in diameter. The other segment of bowel has stapled margins and measures 10 cm in. length and 3.5 cm in diameter. It has adjacent pericolonic fat and. omentum and this portion of the specimen is up to 21 cm in diameter. There is a firm area that appears to be an omental fat that measures. 3 cm in greatest dimension. On cut section, the omental lesion is. tan-green and measures 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. Segments of. bowel are open with single incisions on the antimesenterio surface. There is a fungating tumor in the descending colon that has a. polypoid appearance and appears to be circumferential. It measures. 6.5 X 5.5 X approximately 1 cm. Portions of the specimen are taken. for research purposes. Sections after fixation and clearing. Block summary: 1,2 transverse colon margins of resection; 3. transverse colon; 4 omentum; 5-8 transverse colon lymph nodes; 9.10. descending colon margins; 11 cobblestone mucosa; 12-15 tumor; 16-26. pericolonic lymph nodes. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION. A. Benign reactive changes are seen. B. A single lymph node is negative for malignancy. C. Tumor type: Colonic adenocarcinoma. Tumor grade: 1 of 3. Tumor size: 6.5. Distance to nearest margin: 3. Level of penetration: Carcinoma penetrates into. pericolonic soft tissue. Margins of resection: Negative for malignancy. Vascular invasion: Absent. Host response: Mild chronic inflammation, focally Crohn's. like. Attached lymph nodes: There is no evidence of malignancy. in any of. 34 lymph nodes in the descending. colon or. 12 lymph nodes in the transverse. colon. Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Absent. pTNM Stage: T3 NO. Other findings: Omental fat necrosis. Transverse colon. unremarkable. Cobblestone mucosa in the. descending colon is lymphoid hyperplasia. 2,3,5. DIAGNOSIS. A. Transverse colon colostomy, takedown: Benign reactive changes. B. Omental lymph node, biopsy: A single lymph node is negative for. malignancy. C. Colon, transverse and descending, resection: Well-differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma of the descending. colon. Note: The margins of resection are negative for malignancy. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 12 transverse. colon lymph nodes or 34 descending colon lymph nodes. End Of Report ---.
