patient_filename: TCGA-WQ-AB4B.A0DBAC80-0D07-41BD-9AD2-E73D2DE2FBC7
text: SURG PATH #: SPECIMEN CLASS: ALT ID #: SEX: M. DATE RECEIVED: DATE OF PRINTING: Material Received: A: liver mass. History: year-old male with a clinical history of cirrhosis, liver mass. Final Diagnosis: A. Liver, "liver mass", resection: Hepatocellular carcinoma (3.0 cm), moderately differentiated, in a background of cirrhosis, clinically non-alcoholic. steatohepatitis. Comment: Liver (Hepatectomy)-HCC. Specimen Type: Wedge resection. Tumor Size: 3.0 cm. Tumor Focality: Solitary. Histologic Type: Hepatocellular carcinoma (patchy intratumoral fibrosis is present). Histologic Grade: GII: Moderately differentiated. Tumor Extension: Tumor confined to liver. History of previous treatment (TACE or RFA): No. Treatment Effect: N/A. Margins: Parenchymal Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 0.8 cm. Vascular Invasion: Macroscopic Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion (V): Absent. Microscopic (Small Vessel) Invasion (L): Present. Lymph Nodes: Not applicable. Additional Pathologic Findings: Cirrhosis, clinically non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. Pathologic Staging: pT2Nx. TNM Descriptors. m (multiple primary tumors). r (recurrent). y (post-treatment). Date of Printing: SURG PATH #: ALT ID #: Primary Tumor (pT). pT2: Solitary tumor with vascular invasion or multiple tumors none more than 5 cm. Regional Lymph Nodes (pN). pNX: Cannot be assessed. Distant Metastasis (pM). Not applicable. The pathologic stage assigned here should be regarded as provisional, as it reflects only current pathologic data and does not. incorporate full knowledge of the patient's clinical status and/or prior pathology. Pursuant to the. this case has been concurrently reviewed by the following. pathologist: who agrees with the above diagnosis. Attestation: By this signature, I attest that I have personally formulated the final interpretation expressed in this report and that the above diagnosis is based. upon my examination of the slides and/or other material indicated in this report. Interpreted by: Gross Description: A. Received fresh labeled wit h the patient's name and "liver mass" is a liver wedge resection which weighs 346 grams and. measures 6.0 x 4.2x3.4 cm. The resection margin is red-brown and ragged, and demonstrates multiple staples; the resection. margin is inked black. The capsule is red-brown, smooth to focally nodular. The specimen is perviously incised to reveal a 3.0 x. 2.4 x 2.4 cm mass which bulges the capsule and is located 1.4 cm from the nearest resection margin. The cut surfaces of the. mass are tan, smooth and solid. The remainder of the liver parenchyma is tan-pink and uniformly nodular. A representative. portion of the mass and the liver parenchyma is submitted for tumor bank. A1. Mass in relation to nearest resection margin. A2. Mass in relation to resection margin. A3. Additional section of mass. A4-A5. One complete cross section of the mass, bisected. A6. Liver parenchyma, not grossly involved with the mass. Date of Printing:
