patient_filename: TCGA-2Y-A9GU.5585C485-B57A-4CA8-A3E3-F093A7E6AC76
text: Final Diagnosis. LIVER, SEGMENT V RESECTION: Moderately differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma. The noninvolved liver show macro and microsteatosis with focal dilated sinusoid. No evidence of cirrhosis. See Key Pathological Findings and see comment. KEY PATHOLOGICAL FINDINGS: Specimen type: Liver segmentectomy. Tumor configuration: Lobulated, subcapsular. Tumor size: 11x9x7cm. Histologic type: Hepatocellular carcinoma. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Tumor necrosis: Less than 10%. Parenchymal margin: Free of tumor. Angiolymphatic invasion: Not identified. Pathologic stage: Stage I (T1 Nx Mx ). COMMENT : The liver away from the carcinoma (block A7) show preserved normal framework on. reticulin stain. The trichrome stain show no increase in fibrosis and absence of bridging. iron stain fails. to show any increase in iron deposit. the attending pathologist, personally reviewed the. entire case and rendered the final diagnosis Electronically signed out by. Specimen(s) Received. A. SEGMENT 5 RESECTION FS. Clinical History. None given. Preoperative Diagnosis. Liver cancer. Frozen Section Diagnosis. FSA1. SEGMENT 5 RESECTION: Perpendicular margin is free of tumor. Comment: This frozen section diagnosis/result was communicated to and acknowledged by. in. at. I,. x have performed the intraoperative consultation (s) and issued the above. diagnosis. Gross Description. The specimen is received fresh labeled "segment 5 resection". The specimen consists of. 604.0 gram segmentectomy resection of liver which measures 16.0 x 11.0 x 7.0 cm. The capsule of. the specimen is pink-tan to red-brown, focally hemorrhagic, and has bosselated surface. The. parenchymal resection margin is tan-red-brown, focally cauterized and is inked blue. The specimen is. serially sectioned to reveal an irregular, ill-defined lobulated intraparenchymal tumor mass which. measures 11.0 x 9.0 x 7.0 cm. The tumor is bulging capsule and is 1.0 cm from the closest. parenchymal resection margin. The tumor mass is focally hemorrhagic and necrotic. The areas of. necrosis range from 0.1 to 2.5 cm in greatest dimension, and occupy less than 10% of the tumor. Representative section of the tumor in relation to the closest parenchymal resection margin is. submitted for frozen section as FSA1. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted to. the. Tissue Procurement Laboratory. Additional sections of the specimen are submitted in 6 cassettes as. follows: A2-A5: Tumor bulging capsule. A6: Central part of the tumor. A7: Grossly unremarkable liver parenchyma.
