patient_filename: TCGA-RC-A6M3.E01BF72F-DD73-46D9-8767-A90593DB371B
text: SP Final Report. SP Final Report. Service Date: Authored By: Diagnosis. 1. LIVER, EXTENDED RIGHT LOBE, RESECTION: - HEPATOCELLULAR CARCINOMA, GRADE III, 15.2 X 13.5 X 13.2 CM. - SURGICAL MARGINS ARE NEGATIVE FOR CARCINOMA. - ADJACENT LIVER SHOWING CHOLESTASIS AND FIBROSIS. - DISTANT NON-NEOPLASTIC LIVER SHOWING NO PATHOLOGIC ABNORMALITY. - SEE SYNOPTIC REPORT AND COMMENT. 2. GALLBLADDER, CHOLECYSTECTOMY: - UNREMARKABLE GALLBLADDER. - ONE BENIGN LYMPH NODE, NEGATIVE FOR MALIGNANCY (0/1). - NO EVIDENCE OF MALIGNANCY. Signature Line. I certify that I personally conducted the. diagnostic evaluation on the above specimens. and have rendered the above diagnosis(es): For questions regarding this case, call. Clinical History. Liver tumor. SP Final Report. Sorenson/Surgery. Comments has an overall trabecular architecture with solid sheets, nests and cords of tumor. The cells are high. The tumor but generally recognizable as hepatocytes (Grade III). In some microscopic fields there is of prominent sarcomatoid cytologic. grade nuclear pleomorphism, with multinucleated cells with bizarre nuclei. There is no evidence. and The tumor shows focal microscopic vascular invasion; however, per the staging guidelines, as since pT2. there differentiation. is no evidence of involvement of a "major" branch of the portal or hepatic vein, the tumor is staged. Resident Involved. Microscopic Examination. Performed. Synoptic Report. Primary tumor diagnosis: Hepatocellular carcinoma. Tumor grade: Poorly differentiated (grade III). Tumor size: 15.2 x 13.5 x 13.2 cm. Extent and location of tumor: x tumor is solitary and confined to the right lobe of the liver. Margins of excision: x no tumor identified at margins. tumor is 0.35 cm from the parenchymal resection margin. x x tumor is present beneath the hepatic capsule but not on the surface. x hepatic capsule is free of tumor. Lymph node: 1 number examined. 0 number involved. pT2 NO Mx. Gross Description. The case is received in two parts each labeled with the patient's name and medical record number. Part one 26.1 x 20.3 x 11.7 cm unoriented, previously incised partial hepatectomy. The glisson's of resection. is received fresh and subsequently placed in formalin labeled "#1 extended right lobe", and capsule consists is of mild a. where tan-purple the specimen and has been previously incised and shows yellow-white firm nodular tissue grossly with. 2600 gram, smooth with a minimal amount of adherent blood clot. There is a roughened margin consistent. SP Final Report. tumor on the cut surfaces. There are no hilar vessel margins identified. Sectioning reveals a 15.2 x 13.5 x 13.2 cm. fairly well defined tan-white-yellow soft to rubbery mass that abuts the glisson's capsule but does not penetrate. through and is 0.4 cm focally from the inked margin of resection. Additionally the mass has a tan-green firm. component to it that also abuts the glisson's capsule and is 3.9 cm from the inked margin of resection. The involved. liver parenchyma is red-brown and glistening with no additional lesions present. Representative sections are. submitted as follows: 1A-1B mass to closest margin of resection, 1C-1E mass to glisson's capsule, 1F-1H additional. mass, 11 described firmer green component of mass to glisson's capsule, 1J-1L representative section of firmer. green component of mass, 1M uninvolved appearing liver. Part two is received in formalin labeled "#2 gallbladder", and consists of 6.2 x 3.7 x 1.0 cm intact gallbladder with a. 0.6 cm in length x 0.4 cm in diameter patent cystic duct. The serosa is tan-yellow to green and ranges from smooth. to wrinkled. Opening of the lumen reveals a minimal amount of yellow-green viscous bile. There are no choleliths. identified. There are no intraluminal masses present. The wall ranges from 0.1 to 0,3 cm in thickness. The mucosa. is bile stained green and velvety. There is a 0.5 cm possible lymph node identified adjacent to the cystic duct. Representative sections are submitted in cassette 2A to include the bile duct margin and probable lymph node. Signature Line.
