patient_filename: TCGA-2Y-A9H5.99FC2CC9-19F1-4BCB-81E6-5FED4619B331
text: Final Diagnosis. A. GALLBLADDER, EXCISION: - Chronic cholecystitis. B. LIVER, HEPATIC SEGMENTS 5 AND 6, RESECTION: - Hepatocellular carcinoma. - See key pathologic findings. - Surgical margins are not involved. I,. the attending pathologist, personally reviewed all slides. and / or materials and rendered the final diagnosis. Electronically signed. out by. Ancillary Studies. Immunostains with adequate controls are positive for alpha-fetoprotein, HepPar1 (focal), MUC1. (focal), pCEA (focal) and MOC-31. The polycional CEA does not show unequivocal evidence of. intercellular canalicular pattern. Additionally, the tumor cells are negative for CK7, CK20, CD10,. MUC-5, WT-1, calcitonin, TTF-1, thyroglobulin, p63, MUC-2, ER, synaptophysin, chromogranin, CD56,. CDX2, and inhibin. The findings are consistent with a hepatoceilular carcinoma. On the uninvolved liver parenchyma, the trichrome, reticulin stains show portal expansion and focal. bridging fibrosis. The PAS and PAS with diastase are unremarkable. The Iron stain does not show. abnormal iron deposits. Key Pathological Findings. Tumor size: 9.0 x 7.0 x 5.0 cm. Histologic type: hepatocellular carcinoma. Histologic grade: grade 2 (Edmondson and Steiner grading system). Tumor necrosis: absent. Extent of invasion: absent. Perineural invasion: absent. Parenchymal margin: Uninvolved. Venous (large vessel) invasion: absent. Tumor at 1.5 cm form surgical margin. Additional pathologic findings: Portal inflammation with minimal lobular involvement, compatible with chronic hepatitis, grade. 1. Portal expansion with focal bridging fibrosis, compatible with stage 2. Iron overload: absent. Lymph nodes: not applicable. Pathologic stage: pT1, pNX. Specimen(s) Received. A. NORMAL GALLBLADDER. B. HEPATIC SEGMENT 5 AND 6 FS. Clinical History. Hepatitis now with hepatocellular carcinoma. Preoperative Diagnosis. Hepatocellular carcinoma. Intraoperative Consultation. FSB. HEPATIC SEGMENT 5 AND 6 : Inked margin free of tumor. Comment: This frozen section diagnosis/result was communicated to and acknowledged by. in. at. I,. , have performed the intraoperative consultation (s) and issued the above. diagnosis. Gross Description. A. The specimen is labeled "normal gallbladder". The specimen is received fresh and consists of. a club-shaped gallbladder measuring 11.0 x 3.5 x 2.5 cm. The external surface is tan-pink, smooth on. 1 aspect and roughened on the opposite aspect. The cystic duct is identified measuring 0.5 cm in. length. On opening the specimen contains a small amount of green visceral bile. The mucosal. surface is green-yellow and velvet-like. No calculi is grossly identified. No tissue is submitted to the. Tissue Procurement Laboratory. Representative sections are submitted as A1. B. The specimen is received fresh for our consult labeled "hepatic segment No. 5 and 6, frozen. section". The specimen consists of a 271.3 gram, 11.0 x 10.5 x 5.5 cm resected segment of liver. The surgical margin resection is marked with black ink. A palpable mass is grossly identified with. possible gross involvement of the overlying capsule (blue ink). Serial sections reveal an indurated,. gray-white, well-demarcated intraparenchymal mass (9.0 x 7.0 x 5.0 cm). The tumor comes to within. 1.5 cm of the surgical margin of resection grossly. A representative section of the tumor showing its. relationship to the surgical margin of resection is submitted on frozen section as FSB1. There is gross. evidence of a blood clot located at the surgical margin of resection. The remainder of the cut surface. exhibits grossly unremarkable hepatic parenchyma. A representative section of the tumor is submitted. to the Tissue Procurement Laboratory. Permanent representative sections are submitted as: B2: Mirror image of tumor submitted to Tissue Bank. B3: Tumor showing its relationship to overlying capsule. B4: Tumor showing its relationship to adjacent parenchyma. B5-B7: Additional sections of tumor. B8: Possible blood clot. 89: Grossly unremarkable parenchyma.
