patient_filename: TCGA-PD-A5DF.8D63D119-DC81-45FE-9F02-8228A7160C55
text: SPECIMEN: Sex: F. Date Collected: Date Received. Clinical History/Diagnosis: Right Liver Lobe "Hepatoma". Source of Specimen(s): 1: Right colonic mesenteric lymph node. 2: right lobe liver sigment. 3: gallbladder, segment 5 and 6 of liver, right colon. Gross Description: Received in three parts. Source of Tissue: 1. Labeled #1, "right colonic mesenteric lymph node". Gross Description: Received fresh labeled "right colonic mesenteric lymph node". It. consists of a firm yellow-tan lymph node measuring 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The lymph node. is bisected and entirely submitted in 1A. Source of Tissue: 2. Labeled #2, "right lobe liver segment". Frozen Section Diagnosis: 2FS- CONSISTENT WITH HEPATOCELLULAR. CARCINOMA. PER. Gross Description: Received fresh labeled "right lobe liver segment". It consists of a firm. white-tan well-circumscribed nodule measuring 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm. The nodule is. bisected and entirely submitted in 2FS. Source of Tissue: 3. Labeled #3, "gallbladder, segments 5 and 6 of liver,. right colon". Gross Description: Received fresh labeled "gallbladder, segments 5 and 6 of liver, right. colon". It consists of a large liver mass with attached gallbladder and attached segment of. large bowel. The liver mass measures 21 x 17 x 13.5 cm in greatest dimension. The mass is serially sectioned to reveal a golden-yellow, soft diffusely. necrotic cut surface. Also the mass comes within 2 cm of the closest. cauterized liver margin. A suture is identified at the liver margin. The. margin is inked green. The attached short segment of terminal ileum. measures 7 cm in length and 3 cm in circumference. The terminal ileum is. opened to show a diffusely hemorrhagic smooth mucosal lining with no. discrete masses present. The appendix measures 8.5 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The. appendix is sectioned to reveal a homogeneous, soft tan-pink cut surface. with no discrete masses present. The attached segment of large bowel is. completely adhesed to the previously described liver mass and measures 39. cm in length and 5 cm in circumference. The tumor does not appear to. infiltrate the large bowel wall. The large bowel mucosa is red-brown and. diffusely hemorrhagic with no discrete lesions identified. The gallbladder. measures 8 x 4 x 4 cm. The gallbladder is also grossly adhesed to tumor. The cystic duct is patent measuring 0.5 cm in diameter. The gallbladder is. opened to reveal approximately 20 cc of dark-green viscid bile. The mucosa. is velvety, bile stained with no mucosal ulcerations or polyps identified. Representative sections submitted in 3A-3K. Designation of Sections: 3A- tumor with closest liver margin inked green,. 3B- additional perpendicular sections of the liver margin, 3C-3D- tumor. with closest capsule, 3E- tumor with adjacent normal liver, 3F- proximal. and distal right colon margin, 3G-3H- tumor in relation to right colon,. 3I- cystic duct, 3J- tumor in relation to gallbladder, 3K- appendix. Final Diagnosis: 1. Right colonic mesenteric lymph node, excision: No tumor seen in one lymph node (0/1). 2. Liver, right lobe segment, excision: Hepatocellular carcinoma. 3. Gallbladder, segments 5 and 6 of liver, right colon, excision: Hepatocellular carcinoma, grade II/IV. - The 21 cm carcinoma invades serosa of ascending colon. - Angiolymphatic invasion is identified. - Surgical resection margins are free of carcinoma. Gallbladder with chronic cholecystitis. Cecum and terminal ileum with no diagnostic abnormalities recognized. Appendix with partial fibrosis obliteration of the lumen. pTNM: T4 NO Mx.
