patient_filename: TCGA-G3-A3CJ.191868C4-3299-4E65-9DB2-C8C43CB83963
text: PHN: ACB: Telephone: Encounter: Collected Date: Received Date/Time: Specimen Description. A. Gallbladder. B. Right lobe of liver. Clinical Information. Hep C and new hepatocellular cancer right liver; previous Interferon and Ribavirin several years ago; pre-op portal vein. embolization. INFECTIOUS PATIENT: YES - Hep C. Diagnosis. A. Gallbladder: Within Normal Limits. 1 Normal Cystic Duct Lymph node also Identified (0/1). B. Right lobe of liver: 1)Hepatocellular Carcinoma, Grade 2/4 (Size 12.0 cm). With Lymphvascular Invasion. Primary tumor 1.0 cm away from inked resection margin. Portal Vein Metastases come to within 0.4 cm of the inked margin. Post embolization changes noted within portal vein including. foreign body type giant cell reaction and thrombus formation. Chart Request ID: Print Date/Time: Pathology: Provider - Permanent. Chart ID: PHN: ACB: Collected Date: Received Date/Time: 2) Chronic Hepatitis C infection, Mildly Active. Verified: Synoptic Report. B: Liver, Resection, Macroscopic. Specimen: Liver. Gallbladder. PROCEDURE: Partial hepatectomy. Major hepatectomy (3 segments or more). TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 12 cm. TUMOR FOCALITY: Solitary (specify location): Right Lobe. B: Liver, Resection, Microscopic. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: Gll: Moderately differentiated. TUMOR EXTENSION (select all that apply): Tumor confined to liver. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT): pT2: Solitary tumor with vascular invasion or multiple tumors none more than 5 cm. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN): pNX: Cannot be assessed. DISTANT METASTASIS (pM): Chart Request ID: Pathology: Provider - Permanent. Print Date/Time: PHN: ACB: Collected Date: Received Date/Time: pMX: Cannot be assessed. MARGINS: Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 10 mm. VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V): Present. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Hepatitis (specify type): Hepatitis C. Gross Description. Received are specimens A to B. All requisitions and specimen containers are labelled with the patient's name. The cassettes and AP identifiers are labelled with the Surgical Number. Gross photos are taken of the specimen. A. Devitalization - Fixation Times. Devitalization Time: 1054. Fixation Start Time: Not specified on requisition. Total Fixation Time: Not specified on requisition. The specimen consists of an intact formalin-fixed gallbladder measuring 7.5 X 4.0 X 2.5 cm. A cystic duct lymph node. is. identified. No gallstones are noted in the gallbladder and mucosal wall appears normal in thickness. No masses or. nodules are seen in the gallbladder either. Representative sections are submitted in a single cassette. B. Devitalization - Fixation Times. Devitalization Time: 1131. Fixation Start Time: Not specified on requisition. Total Fixation Time: Not specified on requisition. The specimen consists of a right lobe of liver weighing 1254 g. Within the liver, there is a circumscribed tumor mass. measuring 12.0 cm in maximum dimension. The nodule has areas of hemorrhage and necrosis. Smaller nodules are. noted in the surrounding hepatic parenchyma measuring between 0.1 cm to 4.0 mm. Also, the hepatic vein seems to have. a clot in it, the largest clot measuring up to 0.5 cm in diameter. The surrounding liver appears congested but is not. definitely cirrhotic. The multiple smaller nodules are tumor noted may be grossly consistent with vascular invasion. The. Chart Request ID: Print Date/Time: Pathology: Provider - Permanent. PHN: ACB: Inquiry Numbe. Collected Date: Received Date/Time: main tumor mass comes to within 1.0 cm of the inked resection margin, though the smaller possible intravascular ones. come closer to within 0.4 cm. The tumor has a greenish appearance to it. Representative sections are taken as follows: B1. section. of. liver. and. nearest. resection. margin. to. the. tumor. B2 - representative sections of uninvolved liver. B3 - sections of intravascular blood clot. B4 through B9 - sections of tumor. Chart Request ID: Pathology: Provider - Permanent. Print Date/Time:
