patient_filename: TCGA-G3-A3CG.6E2F9CE1-6D48-42DF-8737-64ED53BF8646
text: PHN: ACB: Telephone: Encounter: you Report. Collected Date: Specimen Description. A. Gallbladder. B. Liver tumor - QS. C. Liver tumor - 26 g. Clinical Information. Cirrhosis, hepatitis, liver tumor. Diagnosis. A: Gallbladder, Cholecystectomy: Chronic cholecystitis and cholelithiasis (please see microscopic. description). B: Liver, Liver Tumor, Biopsy: Hepatocellular carcinoma. C: Liver, Liver Tumor, Resection: Hepatocellular carcinoma, moderately differentiated. Trabecular and pseudoglandular morphology with areas of clear. cells. Tumor size 2.5 cm in greatest dimension. Positive resection margin. Lymphvascular invasion is not identified. Cc. Pathology: Provider. Surgical Pathologv Report. Collected Date: Uninvolved liver with cirrhosis and extensive lymphocytic. inflammation and steatosis. Clinical history of hepatitis C. Please see synoptic report. Synoptic Report. C: Liver, Resection, Microscopic. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GII: Moderately differentiated. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT): pT1: Solitary tumor with no vascular invasion. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN): pNX: Cannot be assessed. DISTANT METASTASIS (pM): pMX: Cannot be assessed. MARGINS: Parenchymal margin involved by invasive carcinoma. VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V): Absent. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Cirrhosis/fibrosis. Gross Description. Received are specimens A to C. All requisitions and specimen containers are labelled with the patient's name. The cassettes and AP identifiers are labelled with the Surgical Number. Pathology: Provider - Permanent. Collected Date: A. The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin and consists of an intact gallbladder. measuring 8.3 x 4.2 X 1.5 cm. The serosal surface is tan, smooth and glistening and the adventitial surface is tan and. roughened. The cystic duct resection margin is identified and is patent. The cystic duct lymph node is not grossly. identified. Multiple tan/green friable calculi are identified in the lumen measuring 0.9 X 0.6 X 0.3 cm in aggregate. The. mucosal surface is green and slightly velvety with yellow speckling. The wall thickness of the gallbladder ranges from 0.1. to 0.6 cm. Specimen serially sectioned and representative sections are submitted in cassettes A1 and A2, cassette A1. representing the cystic duct resection margin and sections from the neck, body and fundus, and A2 representing further. sections from the thickened wall. B. The specimen consists of a 1 cm long core of yellow tissue which is submitted in toto for QS. C. The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin and consists a portion of liver weighing 26. grams and measuring 5.5 X 3.5 x 3.0 cm. The resection margin is marked with blue dye. The serosal surface of. the. liver. has a congested and slightly nodular appearance. A tan and lobular lesion is identified on the cut surface and extends up. to the blue-inked resection margin as well as to the serosal surface. This mass measures 3.5 X 3.1 X 2.8 cm. Sections are submitted as follows: C1-C2 contiguous sections bisected representing the mass in relationship with the blue-inked resection margin and the. serosal surface. C3 lesion and blue-inked resection margin at the pleural surface. C4-C6 further representative sections from the lesion and grossly unremarkable parenchyma. Please note a portion of the specimen is submitted for tumor banking. Frozen Section Diagnosis. B. Liver Tumor: - Hepatocellular carcinoma. Microscopic Description. A. Microscopic sections show a focal granuloma within the wall of the gallbladder. The granuloma has foamy histiocytes. Further levels of this section lose this are. The granuloma is most likely consistent to a foreign body reaction which is. commonly seen as a lipid granuloma. Cc. Pathology: Provider - Permanent. I. Collected Date: C: Microscopic sections show an ill-defined mass arising in the liver. The architecture of the mass includes a trabecular,. solid, and pseudoglandular areas. There are also areas of clear cell change. The trabecular plates are greater than four. cells thick in areas. There is hemorrhage that surrounds the tumor, as well as a focal area of infarct. The mass is present. at the surgical resection margin. The nuclear features of the hepatocellular carcinoma include higher N/C ratio with. hyperchromatic nuclei and pleomorphism. The cytoplasm, in areas, is strongly eosinophilic, while in others, shows a clear. cell change. Immunostains are pending. The uninvolved liver shows a cirrhotic pattern. There are nodules of hyperplastic hepatocytes surrounded by fibrous. septae that are heavily inflamed. The portal tracts are present and occasionally involved by a periportal lymphocytic. inflammation. Steatosis is also identified. Special stains illustrate the fibrosis surrounding the nodules consistent with. cirrhosis. The reticulin stains show loss of the two cell thick hepatocyte plates. There is no hemosiderin or PAS diastase. resistant inclusions identified. Pathology: Provider - Permanent.
