patient_filename: TCGA-DD-A1EG.D3F371AB-487A-47A8-8EE7-2D27D62FE482
text: TISSUE DESCRIPTION. eived in formalin labeled "segment 4A. liver" is a fragment of liver measuring 3.0 x 1.4 X 1.0 cm. The. specimen is a wedge resection and triangular in shape. There is. cautery artifact on one side, the capsule is smooth and without. abnormalities on another surface, and the cut surface is golden. yellow. The specimen is serially sectioned and submitted in. cassettes A1 and A2. DIAGNOSIS: Liver, segment 4A, wedge biopsy: Fatty liver disease. characterized by marked steatosis, mildly active (grade 1 of 3). steatohepatitis, and periportal fibrosis with rare bridging. (stage 2-3 of 4). DIAGNOSIS COMMENT: This is a large wedge biopsy with numerous portal tracts,. although the cytology is distorted by moderate to marked cautery. artifact. Portal areas show intact bile ducts with mild. nonspecific lymphocytic inflammation and several bile duct. hamartomas (von Meyenburg complexes) Acinar parenchyma shows. marked, nearly panacinar, steatosis that is accompanied by only. rare ballooned hepatocytes and very spotty Lymphohistiocytic. infiltrates. There is no vell-formed Mallory's hyaline. Iron. and PAS-D stains are negative. Trichrome and reticulin stains. show only slight zone 3 fibrosis, but fairly extensive. periportal fibrosis and a rare portal-portal bridge. There is. no evidence of extensive fibrosis or cirrhosis. Addendum/Procedure included. TISSUE DESCRIPTION: Tissue from. liver (6.2 X 5.0 x 4.8 cm) . DIAGNOSIS: Liver, segment 4A/4B, resection: Hepatocellular carcinoma,. grade 3 (of 4) , forming a 3.1 X 2.5 X 1.8 cm mass. The surgical. resection margin is negative. Vascular invasion is not. identified. The section of the non-neoplastic hepatic parenchyma. demonstrates severe, predominantly macrovesicular steatosis. with a moderately active steatohepatitis and periportal and. focal bridging fibrosis (stage 2-3 of 4) Scattered non-. necrotizing portal and lobular granulomas are also seen (see. comment) . Comment: The section of non-neoplastic liver contains. numerous portal tracts for evaluation. Many of these contain. mild to moderate lymphocytic inflammatory infiltrates. Some. also contain granulomatous inflammation. The latter does not. appear to be directed at bile ducts. There is no significant. interface activity. The lobular parenchyma demonstrates severe,. predominantly. macrovesicular steatosis. Lobular inflammation, occasional. neutrophils, occasional microgranulomas, and hepatocyte. ballooning are seen. A trichrome stain confirms the presence of. periportal and focal bridging fibrosis. The iron stain is. negative for hemosiderosis. Results of GMS and Auramine-rhodamine stains will be reported. as an addendum. Given the clinical scenario, the granulomatous. inflammation may represent reaction to the patient's neoplasm. Clinical correlation is needed. ADDENDUM: Special stains for microorganisms (AR and GMS) are negative. AMENDMENTS: Revision Description: Amended to include non-. neoplastic liver component in final diagnosis. Original Diagnosis. Liver, segment 4A/4B, resection: Hepatocellular carcinoma,. grade 3 (of 4), forming a 3.1 X 2.5 X 1.8 cm mass, 0.1 cm from. the surgical margin. The surgical resection margin is negative. Vascular invasion is not identified. Evaluation of the non-. neoplastic liver parenchyma will be reported in an addendum. PRELIMINARY FROZEN SECTION CONSULTATION: Liver, segment 4A/4B, resection: Hepatocellular carcinoma. Surgical margin is negative. Non-neoplastic liver shows marked. steatosis. Defer to permanent sections for further assessment.
