patient_filename: TCGA-G3-AAV4.85CCE331-652C-4D5B-9ED6-ECA8B57AE1AF
text: CONFIDENTIAL. Demographics (for. verification purposes). Date of Birth: Sex: F. Collected Date/Time. Received Date/Time. Specimen Description. A. Gallbladder at. B. Right hepatectomy at. Clinical Information. Hepatitis B-HCC. Infectious patient: No. Immunocompromised: No. History of neoplasm: No. Diagnosis. A. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy: Gallbladder with no significant pathologic abnormality. B. Liver, right hepatectomy. Well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma. Tumor size: 8.0 x 7.2 x 5.8 cm. Tumor comes within 0.2 cm of resection margin. Negative for lymphvascular invasion. Multiple embolized vessels identified; consistent with prior. procedure. Background liver shows moderate portal lymphocytic. infiltration (grade 3) and bridging fibrosis (stage 3),. consistent with chronic viral hepatitis B. Please see synoptic report. Verified: Responsible Resident: Synoptic Report. B: Liver, Resection, Micrescopic. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GI: Well differentiated. TUMOR EXTENSION (select all that apply) : Tumor confined to liver. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) : pT1: Solitary tumor with no vascular invasion. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) : pNX: Cannot be assessed. DISTANT METASTASIS (pM) : pMX: Cannot be assessed. MARGINS: Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 0.2. mm. VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V) : Absent. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Hepatitis (specify type) : Hepatitis B viral hepatitis. Gross Description. Received are specimen containers A tn D 777 remisitions and specimen containers are. labelled with the patient's name,. The cassettes and. identifiers are. labelled with the Surgical Number. A. Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated n Gallbladder" and consists. of an intact gallbladder, measuring 8.0 x 3.0 x 1.5 cm. The gallbladder has a smooth. serosal surface. On opening the gallbladder contains approximately 10.0 ml of dark green. bile and no stones. The mucosal surface is homogeneously green with normal appearing. architecture. Representative sections are submitted in one cassette. B. Specimen is received fresh. The container is designated " Right hepatectomy" and. consists of a portion of liver, which weighted 347 g in the fresh state and the margin. was inked blue. The specimen was tumor banked when received fresh. Following fixation the. portion of liver, measures 12.0 x 7.0 x 11.0 cm and has a smooth capsular surface. A. circumscribed mass with a yellow tan parenchyma and central area of scarring with. hemorrhage is present, measuring 7.2 x 5.8 x 8.0 cm. This tumor comes within 0.2 mm of. the liver capsule and within 0.3 cm from the inked margin. The background liver has a. yellow coloration and appears fibrotic. Possible emboli are identified in the background. liver, but no satellite tumor nodules are present. Representative sections are submitted. as follows: B1/2. tumor with closest margin. B3. tumor in relationship to background liver. B4. tumor in relationship to liver capsule. B5-9. additional representative sections of tumor. B10/11. sections showing possible emboli. B12. representative sections of background liver. Microscopic Description. Immunohistochemisty in the background liver shows focal positivity for hepatitis B core. antigen in some nuclei and strong focal positivity for hepatitis B surface antigen,. consistent with the patient's history of hepatitis B infection. The tumor cells are negative for alpha-feto - protein. Negativity for this marker can be. seen in hepatocellular carcinomas. The tumor morphology is consistent with. hepatocellular carcinoma. Encounter Number. Patient Location.
