patient_filename: TCGA-G3-AAV1.0124A3C7-B294-464E-831D-3E4738E3F305
text: 1. CONFIDENTIAL. Demographics (for. verification purposes). Date of Birth: Sex: M. ADDENDUM REPORT. Addendum Report. Collected Date/Time. Received Date/Time. Addendum Reason. results of special stains. Addendum Diagnosis. A. Liver, Segment 6, Partial Hepatectomy: Hepatocellular carcinoma, poorly differentiated, 5.0 x 4.5 x 4.5 cm. Tumor perforates visceral peritoneum (pT4). Venous and lymphatic space invasion present. Intralymphatic carcinoma present within 0.24 cm of parenchymal. resection margin. Background liver with cirrhosis, consistent with the known history. of hepatitis B. Focal non-necrotizing granuloma, special stains negative for. infectious organisms. Please see comment and synoptic report. B. Right Diaphragm, Excision: Skeletal muscle and fibroadipose tissue with adherent fibrinous. debris and reactive mesothelial hyperplasia. Rare detached cauterized fragments of hepatocellular carcinoma,. present within adherent blood clot. No tissue invasion by tumor identified. c. "Adrenal Gland", Right Excision. Intravenous embolus of hepatocellular carcinoma, involving a large. vein within adipose tissue. No adrenal gland identified. Please see comment. Verified: Addendum Discussion. An addendum is issued to report the results of special stains for microorganisms, done to. evaluate a non-necrotizing granuloma (block A10). Ziehl-Neelsen and Grocott's stains are negative for acid-fast bacilli and fungi,. respectively. However, negative stains do not rule out the possibility of an infectious. etiology. There are no other changes to the original report. Please refer to the comment section. of the original report for additional details. Surgical Pathologv R. Collected Date/Time. Received Date/Time. Specimen Description. A. Liver segment 6 at 0. B. Right diaphragm and tumor at. C. Right adrenal at. Clinical Information. Hepatitis B+, hepatocellular carcinoma. Diagnosis. A. Liver, Segment 6, Partial Hepatectomy: Hepatocellular carcinoma, poorly differentiated, 5.0 x 4.5 x 4.5 cm. Tumor perforates visceral peritoneum (pT4). Venous and lymphatic space invasion present. Intralymphatic carcinoma present within 0.24 cm of parenchymal. resection margin. Background liver with cirrhosis, consistent with the known history. of hepatitis B. Focal non-necrotizing granuloma, pending special stains. Please see comment and synoptic report. B. Right Diaphragm, Excision: Skeletal muscle and fibroadipose tissue with adherent fibrinous. debris and reactive mesothelial hyperplasia. Rare detached cauterized fragments of hepatocellular carcinoma,. present within adherent blood clot. No tissue invasion by tumor identified. C. "Adrenal Gland", Right Excision. Intravenous embolus of hepatocellular carcinoma, involving a large. vein within adipose tissue. No adrenal gland identified. Please see comment. Verified: Synoptic Report. Specimen: Liver. PROCEDURE: Partial hepatectomy. Minor hepatectomy (less than 3 segments). TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 5.0. cm. Additional dimensions: 4.5 x 4.5 cm. TUMOR FOCALITY: Solitary (specify location) : segment 6. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GIII: Poorly differentiated. TUMOR EXTENSION (select all that apply) : Tumor directly invades other adjacent organs: tumor penetrates through visceral. peritoneum, and was adherent to diaphragm and periadrenal adipose tissue intra-. operatively. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) : pT4: Tumor (s) with direct invasion of adjacent organs other than the gallbladder or. perforation of visceral peritoneum. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) : pNX: Cannot be assessed. DISTANT METASTASIS (pM) : pMX: Cannot be assessed. MARGINS: Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 2.4. mm. Bile duct margin cannot be assessed. VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V) : Present. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Cirrhosis/fibrosi. Hepatitis (specify type) : hepatitis B. non-necrotizing granuloma. COMMENT (s) : please see comment in main report. Gross Description. Received are specimen containers A in . requisitions and specimen containers are. labelled with the patient's name,. The cassettes and identifiers are. labelled with the Surgical Number. A. The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin, designated. as "A - liver segment 6". The specimen consists of a 131.8 gram, 10.0 x 5.6 x 5.9 cm. portion of liver. The capsular surface is smooth and predominantly tan with a focal. hemorrhagic area. The resection margin is painted blue. Sectioning reveals a 5.0 x 4.5. x 4.5 cm well demarcated multinodular mass which replaces most of the resected liver. The nodules are variably yellow green to tan with foci of hemorrhage and necrosis. The. mass comes to within 1.0 cm to the parenchymal resection margin. The remaining liver. parenchyma is brown, tan, slightly firm, and nodular. Sections are submitted as follows: A1-4. mass in relation to parenchymal resection margin with A1 demonstrating area. of necrosis. A5-7. lesion in relation to the capsule, A5-6 demonstrating areas of hemorrhage. A8-10. representative sections from remaining liver parenchyma. B. The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin, designated. as "B - right diaphragm and tumor" The specimen consists of a 4.5 x 3.3 x 0.9 cm. irregular portion of grey-tan to dark brown tissue. One surface is grey-tan and smooth. The opposite surface is dark brown and roughened. Sectioning reveals a central area that. is light brown and homogeneous. Six representative sections are submitted in B1-B3. The. remaining specimen is submitted in toto following initial histologic examination in B4-. B6. C. The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin, designated. as "C - right adrenal. The specimen consists of multiple portions of fibrofatty tissue. measuring in aggregate 5.0 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm. The cut surface shows predominantly yellow. adipose tissue with areas of semi firm tan to hemorrhagic friable tissue. A definitive. adrenal gland is not identified. Sections are submitted as follows: C1. slightly firm tan to hemorrhagic tissue submitted in toto. C2-3. remainder of tissue submitted in toto. Pathologist Comment. The hepatocellular carcinoma shows a classical trabecular / sinusoidal growth pattern. with a few foci of acinar growth. The tumor is morphologically heterogeneous, ranging. from moderately differentiated to poorly differentiated with anaplastic cytology. While. the main tumor mass is excised with a 7 mm margin, there is extensive lymphovascular. invasion beyond the tumor capsule, and intralymphatic tumor is present within 2.4 mm of. the parenchymal resection margin. Cauterized fragments of tumor are present in blood. clot adherent to the diaphragm, but these may represent intraoperative artifact, and no. true invasion of the diaphragm is identified. Finally, the specimen designated "adrenal". shows adipose tissue with a large intravenous tumor embolus. No adrenal gland is. identified. Per discussion with Dr. this tissue was taken from the fat plane. between the liver and the adrenal, and therefore this may represent local extension of. tumor. Finally, the background liver shows cirrhosis (consistent with the known history of. hepatitis B) as well as a single well-formed non-necrotizing granuloma. Special stains. for infectious organisms are pending, and will be reported as an addendum. In case ancillary studies are desired, tumor block information is 'listed below: Best tumor block: A6. Best normal block: A8. Encounter Number. Patient Location.
