patient_filename: TCGA-ZP-A9D4.8BD8A06B-4C20-4EF9-950D-AFED27C1303F
text: Results History. Component. Specimen : A. Gallbladder. B. Liver FS. Clinical Notes: Pre-op diagnosis: Liver tumor. B) Fresh tissue saved for. tissue bank. Diagnosis: A. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy: - Gallbladder with no pathologic diagnosis. Negative for dysplasia or malignancy. B. Liver, right hepatectomy;. Hepatocellular carcinoma, well differentiated. (9.5 cm). Parenchymal resection margin negative for. malignancy. - AJCC Stage (2010) : pTl pNX pMX. Please see Tumor Characteristics. IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY DISCLAIMER: This test was developed. and its performance characteristics determined by. It has not been cleared or. approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA. has determined that such clearance or approval is not. necessary. By placing the electronic signature on this. report, the pathologist certifies that all positive and. negative immunohistochemistry controls were reviewed and. approved. (Electronically signed by). Verified: Tumor Characteristics: B: Liver, Resection (AJCC 7th Ed., , 2010). SPECIMEN TYPE: Right lobectomy. TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 9.5 cm. Additional dimensions: 9.0 x 8.2 cm. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GI: Well differentiated. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) : pT1: Solitary tumor without vascular invasion. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) : pNX: Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed. AJCC STAGING (pTNM) : pT1 pNX pMX. MARGINS: Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 5.0. mm. LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION: Macroscopic Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion. Not identified. Microscopic (Small Vessel) Invasion. Not identified. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Hepatitis (specify type) : Macrovesicular steatosis. Gross: A. The specimen is labeled "gallbladder. " Received in. formalin is a gallbladder measuring 7. 8 x 2.5 x 1.8 cm. The. serosal surface of the gallbladder is tan-pink to purple,. smooth, glistening. Focal areas of hemorrhage are noted on. the serosal surface. The gallbladder is opened to reveal. approximately 5 CC of dark green-brown liquid bile. The. gallbladder mucosa is dark greenish-brown and velvety. No. discrete nodules or lesions are grossly identified within. the lumen of the gallbladder. No gallstones are present. within the gallbladder. Representative sections, including. the cystic duct margin, are submitted in cassette A. B. The specimen is labeled "liver.' Received fresh. for. frozen section is an 885 gram portion of liver, measuring. 16.0 X 13.0 x 8.5 cm. The capsular surface of the liver. exhibits a nodular appearance. The capsular surface is. pink-red to light purple, and a mass is seen bulging under. the capsule. The parenchymal resection margin is marked. with black ink, and the specimen is serially sectioned to. reveal a 9.5 x 9.0 X 8.2 cm, relatively well-circumscribed,. light greenish-browr to tan-white to focally hemorrhagic. mass with variegated cut surface. The mass is located 0.5. cm from the closest parenchymal resection margin. Two. representative sections of the mass are submitted for frozen. section. The uninvolved liver parenchyma is dark reddish-. Accession #: : brown. No distinct nodularity is observed in the uninvolved. liver parenchyma. No other distinct lesions or nodules are. grossly identified. Gross photographs were taken. Representative sections are submitted as follows: Cassette Designation: B1-2. Frozen section remnants. B3-4. Mass with closest parenchymal. resection margin. B5-8. Additional sections of the mass. B9. Uninvolved liver parenchyma. Intraoperative Consultation. FROZEN SECTION: B1-2. Grade 1 hepatocellular carcinoma. Microscopic: Histological examinations have been performed on specimens A. and B. B. Sections of the liver show a proliferation of. hepatocytes arranged in cell plates that are three to five. cell layers thick. The hepatocytes exhibit granular. eosinophilic cytoplasm, round to slightly irregular nuclei,. prominent nucleoli, and increased nuclear to cytoplasmic. ratios. The cells exhibit moderate pleomorphism. Occasional dilated sinusoids are seen within the tumor. Focal pseudoacinar formation is observed. A reticulin stain. highlights the thickened hepatocyte plate. Immunohistochemical staining shows that the tumor cells are. focally positive for glypican-3. The parenchymal resection. margin is uninvolved by the tumor. The surrounding. uninvolved liver parenchyma is composed of hepatocytes in. lobular configuration composed of cell plates that are one. to two cell layers thick. Mild macrovesicular steatosis is. observed particularly around zone three. Focal mild. periportal inflammation is observed. There is no evidence. of regenerative nodule formation or bridging fibrosis in the. uninvolved liver parenchyma. Administrative Notes: CPT: No charge codes are associated with this case. Entrv Date and Time. In process.
