patient_filename: TCGA-RG-A7D4.C8724B8E-5FC3-419B-9CC8-E6046D671D96
text: Report Name: Surg Path Case - STATUS: Final. SEE NOTE. Collect/Perform: Facility: Physician who Performed Procedure: Requesting Physician: Not specified. Attending Pathologist. DIAGNOSIS: Liver, central hepatectomy: - Histologic Type: Hepatocellular carcinoma. - Histologic Grade: G2 (moderately differentiated) to G3 (poorly. differentiated). - Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 2.8 cm; other two dimensione: 2.4 x 2.2 cm. - Tumor Focality: Solitary. - Tumor Site: Segment 4b of the liver (by MRI report). - Tumor Extension: Tumor confined to liver. - Margins: Parenchymal Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 1 mm to 2 mm. from parenchymal resection margin. Other margins: Cannot be assessed. - Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Macroscopic Venous (Large Vessel) Invasion: Not identified. Microscopic (Small Vessel) Invasion: Present. - Perineural Invasion: Not identified. - Regional Lymph Nodes (total number involved/total number identified) : 0/2. (part 2). - Distant Metastasis: Cannot be assessed. - Additional Pathologic Findings: Liver parenchyma shows portal. inflammatory infiltrate, predominantly lymphocytes, with mild interface. activity, and portal and periportal firbosis with some bridging fibrosis. (3/6, trichrome and reticulin stains), consistent with chronic hepatitis. (clinical history of hepatitis C virus infection) No significant. hemosiderosis (iron stain) and no globules of alpha-1 antitrypsin seen. (PASD stain). Small bile duct hamartoma (von. Mayenburg complex, 1mm in. Report Name: : largest dimension) seen. Fibrosis score; None to moderate fibrosis (Ishak score 0-4) (F0). Hepatocellular dysplasia: Not identified. - Ancillary Studies: None. - Clinical History: Hepatitis c virus infection. AJCC Pathologic Staging: pT2 NO M-not applicable. 2. Gallbladder, cholecystectomy: - Chronic cholecystitis with cholelithiasis and cholesterolosis. - Two lymph nodes, negative for carcinoma (0/2). COMMENT: None. This case has been reviewed by one or more pathologists in the Division of. CLINICAL INFORMATION: Liver Cancer. GROSS DESCRIPTION: 1. The specimen is received fresh for intraoperative consult labeled. "central hepatectomy" It consists of a 57 g, 7.0 x 4.4 x 2.8 cm. wedge-shaped piece of liver. The capsule is smooth and glistening. The. parenchymal margin ie inked black. Sectioning reveals a. well-circumscribed, nodular, tan tumor, measuring 2.8 x 2.4 x 2.2 cm and. located 0.1 cm from the capaule and 0.2 cm from the parenchymal margin. The surrounding liver parenchyma is tan and grossly unremarkable with. cauterized areas. Representative sections are submitted as follows: 1AFSC: Liver tumor with parenchymal margin, frozen. 1B-1E: Additional sections of liver tumor with parenchymal margin and. capsule. 1F: Grossly uninvolved liver. INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULT: - Focally tumor is 1 to 2 mm to inked parenchymal margin. Reported to. Report Name: Pathology consult: 2. The specimen is received fresh and labeled "Gallbladder and consiste of. a previously cut gallbladder, measuring 6.6 x 3.0 x 1.2 cm. The serosa is. tan-pink with fibrous adhesion. Sectioning reveals a minimal amount of bile. and a 0.7 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm black calculus. The mucosa is erythematous with. minimal focal yellow flecks. The wall measures up to 0.3 cm thick. The. proximal portion of the cyetic duct is identified and contains no stones in. its lumen, which measures up to 0.2 cm in diameter. There are two firm. lymph nodes adjacent to the cystic duct and measuring 1.4 x 0.6 x 0.6 cm. and 1.5 x 0.8 x 0.7 cm. Sections are submitted as follows: 2A: inked shaved cystic duct margin and sections of gallbladder. 2B: Two bisected lymph nodes (differentially inked black and blue). The following special studies were performed on this case and the. interpretation is incorporated in the diagnostic report above: 1xIRON (NOT BM ASPIRATE), 1xTRICHROME-MASSON, 1xRETICULIN, 1xPAS-DIASTASE. I certify that I personally conducted the diagnostic evaluation of the. above specimen (s) and have rendered the final diagnosis(es). Note: The histology, immunochemistry and in situ hybridization components. for this case were performed at. The Attending Pathologist reviewed this case and made the diagnosis. where applicable, immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization tests were. developed and the performance characteristice determined by the. These tests. have not been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. and the results should be correlated with other clinical and laboratory. data. Appropriate controls were performed for all immunohistochemistry, in. situ hybridization and histochemical tests.
