patient_filename: TCGA-BC-A69H.AE56DFF8-AF71-4217-A491-8F78543E186D
text: Diagnosis. A: Liver, segments 4-8, resection. Number of tumors: one. Tumor histologic type: poorly differentiated carcinoma, favor. hepatocellular carcinoma (see comment). Histologic grade: poorly differentiated, grade 4 of 4. (Edmondson-Steiner classification). Tumor size: 11 cm. Tumor location: right hepatic lobe. Tumor necrosis: focal (approximately 10% by gross. examination). Vascular invasion: present, extensive. Perineural invasion: not identified. Capsular invasion: not identified. Satellite lesions: not identified. Margins: Parenchymal margin: negative but extremely close (0.13 mm). (possibly superseded by specimen B). Vascular margins : negative. Bile duct margins: negative. Lymph nodes: none identified. Background liver: moderate macrovesicular steatosis. (approximately 40%). focal ballooning degeneration of. hepatocytes, and at least bridging fibrosis (see comment). Additional findings: none. AJCC Pathologic TNM stage: pT2 pNX. NOTE: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information. available at the time of this report and is subject to change. pending clinical review and additional information. B: Liver, segment 4B, excision. - No carcinoma identified. - Moderate macrovesicular steatosis. Comment : Immunostains are performed on a section of tumor (block A5) . The. malignant cells are positive for cytokeratin AE1/AE3, CK8/18,. and HepParl. MOC-31 shows patchy moderate staining. CD10 is. negative. The immunophenotype shows overlapping features between. hepatocellular carcinoma and cholangiocarcinoma; however, given. the strong HepPar1 staining, a poorly differentiated. hepatocellular carcinoma is favored. Special stains are performed on a section of background liver. (block A9) . A trichrome stain shows bridging fibrosis with areas. suggestive of possible early nodule formation. There is a single. focus of minor centrilobular perisinusoidal fibrosis. A. reticulin stain shows no significant hepatic plate expansion. An. iron stain shows mild to moderately increased iron staining. within hepatocytes (grade 2 of 4) and increased iron staining. within Kupffer cells. A PAS-D stain shows no PAS positive. cytoplasmic inclusions. Clinical History: year-old male with a clinical diagnosis of hepatocellular. carcinoma. Gross Description: Received are two appropriately labeled containers. Container A: Specimen Type: lobectomy, right. Specimen Weight: 850 grams. Measurement : 18 X 13 X 11 cm. Orientation: The specimen is oriented anatomically. The cut. surface is inked blue. The specimen is received with a stitch in. the center of the cut surface, which is inked red. Capsule: focally thinned where the mass abuts over a region 4.5. X 4.5 cm near the dome; the capsule is brown and smooth. Mass: An 11.2 X 8.6 X 7.2 cm yellow/tan, poorly circumscribed. mass is present. The mass has a central scar and focal. hemorrhage. Less than 10% of the mass is necrotic. The mass. abuts but does not penetrate through the capsule. Less. than 1 mm from the blue inked surgical margin. Adjacent liver tissue: brown and grossly unremarkable without. nodularity or fibrosis. Major portal vein/ hepatic vein: not involved. Gallbladder: not present. Block summary: A1 - vascular margins, cut surface. A2 - vascular margins, capsule. A3 - mass in closest approach to blue inked surgical margin. A4 - mass in relation to capsule. A5- - - representative sections of mass. A9 - sections of grossly unremarkable liver taken away from mass. Container B is additionally labeled "liver, Segment 4B. " It. holds a 28.4 gram, 7.2 X 2.7 X 2.6 cm approximately wedge-shaped. piece of liver. One surface is a tan smooth serosal surface, and. the remaining two surfaces are cut parenchymal surfaces. One of. the cut surfaces is designated by the surgeon with the stitch. at the definitive margin. The definitive margin is inked blue,. and the opposite surface is inked black. Serial sectioning. reveals a tan firm parenchymal surface without masses, cysts or. other lesions. Block summary: B1-B2 - one full thickness section, bisected. B3-B4 - - one full thickness section, bisected. B5-B6 - - additional representative sections of blue inked. representative margin.
