patient_filename: TCGA-G3-A7M9.0759EEFA-E337-43A5-A6B8-7FDB5FE579EB
text: CONFIDENTIAL. Nam. Demographics (for. verification purposes). Date of Birth: Collected Date/Time. Received Date/Time. Specimen Description. A. Gallbladder. B. Right liver. Clinical Information. Hepatocellular carcinoma. Infectious patient: No. Immunocompromised: N/A. History of neoplasm: N/A. Diagnosis. A. Gallbladder; Cholecystectomy: Cholelithiasis, chronic cholecystitis. B. Liver, (Right Lobe) ; Resection: Moderately differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma, 11.4 cm,. confined within liver capsule, vascular invasion present, resection. margin negative for malignancy. Iron overload (4+), consistent with history of hemochromatosis. Liver cirrhosis. Verified: Synoptic Report. Specimen: Liver. Gallbladder. PROCEDURE: Partial hepatectomy. Major hepatectomy (3 segments or more). TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 11.4 cm. Additional dimensions: 10.4 x 8.4 cm. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GII: Moderately differentiated. TUMOR EXTENSION (select all that apply) : Tumor confined to liver. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) : pT3: Multiple tumors more than 5 cm or tumor involving a major branch of the portal or. hepatic vein(e. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) : pNX: Cannot be assessed. MARGINS. Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 4. mm. VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V) : Present. PADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Cirrhosis/fibrosis. Iron overload. Gross Description. Received are specimen containers A in B. All requisitions and specimen containers are. labelled with the patient's name,. The cassettes and. are. labelled with the Surgical Number. A. The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin. The. container is designated as "Gallbladder". The specimen consists OF an intact gallbladder. which measures 16.5 x 7.5 x 6.5 cm. The serosa is slightly congested but otherwise. unremarkable. The adventitial surface is marked with black dye. A cystic duct lymph. node is not grossly identified. The cystic duct is patent. The lumen contains yellow,. red watery bile and multiple black calculi which range in size from less than 0.1 cm to. 1.3 cm in maximum dimension. The calculi are irregular, smooth and multifaceted. The. mucosa is green to vellow-stained and velvety. There is an area of defect on the mucosa. measuring 0.4 cm in maximum dimension, which comes to within 8.2 cm of the cystic duct. margin. Representative sections are submitted as follows: Al - cystic duct margin, neck, body and fundus. The section from the body contains the. mucosal. defect. B. The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin. The. container is designated as "right liver". The specimen consists of a liver lobe which. weighs 770 g and measures 13.0 x 11.7 x 8.6 cm. The cauterized resection margin is. marked with black dye. The capsular surface is dark brown to congested with irregular. tan areas. Multiple palpable firm nodules are identified on the capsular surface and. come to within 2.5 cm of the nearest resection margin. Sectioning chrough the specimen. reveals an ill-defined can to white to brown, slightly friable mass measuring 11.4 x 10.5. x 8.4 cm. Grossly, this mass extends to the capsular surface. The mass comes grossly to. within 0. cm of the nearest resection margin. Grossly, it appears as if the tumor has. invaded to a vessel. The remaining liver parenchyma appears to be dark brown to orange,. mottled and firm. The mass is adjacent to the nodule palpated on the capsular surface. Representative sections are submitted as follows: B1 - most unremarkable liver parenchyma. B2 - two sections of mass in relation to nearest resection margin. B3 and B4 . three sections of possible vessel invasion of tumor. B5 - second area of possible vessel invasion, contiguous section bisected. B6. - two sections demonstrating possible capsular invasion. B7 through B9 - three sections of liver which are grossly uninvolved by the mass (?. cirrhosis). Microscopic Description. B. Sections of the tumor show a poorly differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma. Immunohistochemistry yielded the following results: Alpha fetoprotein+, CEA(p) -, EMA. canalicular pattern, vimentin-, Hep Parl+. Encounter Number. Patient Location.
