patient_filename: TCGA-G3-AAV7.0F368084-04F6-4DCE-9ADF-6B3B94D274AB
text: CONFIDENTIAL. Demographics (for. verification purposes). Date of Birth: Sex: M. Collected Date/Time. Received Date/Time. Specimen Description. Liver segment 2,3 at. Clinical Information. Hep B. Liver tumor. Hepatocellular carcinoma. Diagnosis. A. Liver segment 2,3, Wedge Resection: Moderately differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma. (please see synoptic report for details) ;. Lymphovascular invasion noted in small vessels;. Tumor present less than 1 mm from hepatic capsule;. Resection margin negative (more than 1 cm). Verified: Responsible Resident: (Resident). Synoptic Report. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Hepatocellular carcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: GII: Moderately differentiated. TUMOR EXTENSION (select all that apply) : Tumor confined to liver. PRIMARY TUMOR (pT) : pT2: Solitary tumor with vascular invasion or multiple tumors none more than 5 cm. REGIONAL LYMPH NODES (pN) : pNX: Cannot be assessed. DISTANT METASTASIS (pM) : pMX: Cannot be assessed. MARGINS: Parenchymal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 10.0 mm. VENOUS (LARGE VESSEL) INVASION (V) : Absent. ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Cirrhosis/fibrosis (Fibrosis Score: Ishak score 5 (marked bridging (portal to portal and. portal to central) with occasional nodules)). Hepatitis (specify type) : Hepatitis B (Chronic Hepatitis: Grade 2 (mild periportal. inflammation and piecemeal necrosis or focal hepatocellular necrosis) ). Mild steatosis 1<5% of total liver parenchyma). Gross Description. Received is a single specimen container. The requisition and specimen container are. labelled with the patient's name,. The cassette and identifiers are. labelled with the Surgical Number. The specimen is received fresh and is subsequently placed into formalin. The container. is designated "Liver segment 2, 3". Specimen consists of a liver segment that weights. 169.3 g and measures 15.0 x 7.5 x 4.0 cm. Serial sections through the liver reveals a. well circumscribed yellow mass beneath the liver capsule, that measures 2.7 x 2.3 x 2.1. cm. The mass is solid, with focal areas of necrosis and punctate hemorrhage. The mass. lies just beneath the liver capsule. The remainder of the liver is deep yellow in color. and grossly nodular. The surgical resection margin has been painted blue and the liver. capsule adjacent to the mass has been painted green. There is a defect in the capsule of. the liver 2.0 cm away from the mass that has been painted yellow. The mass lies more. than 1.0 cm from the surgical resection margin. Sections are submitted as follows: A1 to 10. the liver mass in toto. All. the closest surgical resection margin. A12. uninvolved liver parenchyma. A13. sample of the previously described defect. Microscopic Description. Sections show a well circumscribed moderately differentiated hepatocellular. carcinoma with pushing borders. The carcinoma has a trabecular pattern >4 cells thick. with notable areas of pseudoglandular architecture with pleomorphic hyperchromatic foci. The morphology suggests a mixed hepatocellular-cholangiocarcinoma with stem cell. features. However, the immunoprofile failed to support this diagnosis. The tumor is diffusely and strongly positive for glypican-3 indicating. hepatocellular origin. It shows patchy moderate positivity alpha-1 antitrypsin, very. focal mild HepParl. Other markers of hepatocellular differentiation (alpha fetoprotein,. polyclonal CEA, cytoplasmic TTF-1, BHCG and OCT3/4 are largely negative. Markers of cholangiocytic differentiation (CK7, CK19 and polyclonal CEA). There. is however, patchy strong staining for EMA. Stem cell features are only supported by focal positivity for CD56 while CD19 and. C-KIT are negative. This does not support the presence of any stem cell component. CD30 is negative. Tumor block = A9; Non tumor block = A12. Pathologist Comment. Dr. reviewed this case and rendered his expert opinion. Encounter Number. Patient Location.
